
Episode No:  41K317002E
4143170.BFE

EVANGELISTA, TORRIE 
Lab No:  41K31700
Glen Innes
MULWALA  New South Wales  3695
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  18/9/2013
Sex:  F
Collected: 20/1/2063 at :
Location:  ACT Genetic-COOKTOWN HOSPITAL
DR MARIA BERNIE BRUNBACK
Distribution:   FILE-COPY, DR Calhoon
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (30.1.63):


CLINICAL:
DCIS left breast 9 o'clock.  - Close medial (3mm) and very close lateral margins.  Left breast re-excision - medial margin - short stitch superior, long stitch new medial margin - lateral margin - short stitch superior, long stitch new lateral margin.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left breast tissue lateral margin" consists of breast tissue with two sutures, short marking superior, long stitch marking new lateral.  It weighs 30g and measures 12mm (medial to lateral) x 45mm (superior to inferior) x 70mm (superficial to deep).  On the superficial surface, an ellipse of skin measuring 30 x 3mm is present.  The medial aspect of the specimen (representing previous lateral margin) is covered by fibrous tissue.  Superior inked red, medial inked blue, new lateral margin inked black.  Specimen has beenserially sectioned from superficial to deep into twelve slices.  The cut surface of the breast tissue is mostly fatty.  No obvious lesion is identified.
Block:  1 - three LS superficial margin; 2 & 3 - slice two; 4 & 5 - slice four;6 & 7 - slice six; 8 & 9 - slice eight; 10 & 11 - slice ten; 12 & 13 - slice twelve (slices two, four, six, eight, ten, twelve bisected arranged from superior to inferior); 14 - two LS of deep margin.  Multiple pieces in fourteen blocks. 15 to 29 - remainder of tissue, AE. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Medial margin left breast tissue" consists of breast tissue with two sutures, short stitch marking superior, long stitch marking new medial.  It weighs 13g and measures 15mm (medial to lateral) x 65mm (superior to inferior) x 40mm (superficial to deep).  The lateral aspect of cavity (representing previous medial margin) is lined by fibrous tissue.  Superficial inked red, new medial margin inked blue, lateral inked black.  Specimen serially sectioned from superior to inferior into eleven slices.  The cut surfaceof the breast tissue is fibrofatty.
Blocks:  1 - LS of superior margin; 2 - slice two; 3 - slice four; 4 & 5 - slice six; 6 & 7 - slice eight (slices six and eight bisected arranged from superficial to deep); 8 - slice ten; 9 - LS ofinferior margin.  Multiple pieces in 9 blocks.  (FL/bl 21/1/63). 10 to 18 - remainder of tissue (KJ 23.1.63).
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Dauphinais):
A.  Sections show breast tissue.  There is fibrosis, granulation tissue  and fat necrosis extending from the cavity side of the specimen, consistent with previous surgery.  In three of the sections (Blocks A4, A6, A8) there is residual in situ carcinoma identified.  This involves ducts and lobules and is very similar in appearance to the peripheral areas of DCIS present in the previous resection specimen (41K31700).  The features are of DCIS showing pagetoid spread into peripheral ducts and lobules.  The DCIS in the present specimen is intermediate grade and it extends to part of the new inked lateral excision margin.  The appearances are otherwise unremarkable.  Slides have also been viewed by Prof L Lule.
B.  Sections show breast tissue with fibrosis, granulation tissue and fat necrosis from previous surgery.  No residual DCIS is seen.  
The remainder of both specimens, A and B. will be submitted for histological examination and a supplementary report issued.    
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Left breast tissue lateral margin:  Residual DCIS extending to part of new lateral excision margin, see text. 
B.  Medial margin left breast tissue:  Changes related to previous surgery.  No residual DCIS.   Supplementary report to follow.   
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (30.1.63):
The remainder of the tissue has been examined histologically.
A.  Residual DCIS is identified very close to the new true lateral margin in two of the further sections.
B.  No DCIS is identified in the further sections.  Representative slides also viewed by Dr L Truslow.
 
 

