Episode No:  17N620654F
1756206.OLF

MITCHAM, JUAN 
Lab No:  17N62065
W Acme
URUNGA  SA  2550
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/11/1999
Sex:  M
Collected: 21/5/2063 at :
Location:  DAY SURGERY-NEPEAN HOSPITAL
DR MARIA YOLONDA EUBANKS
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
TV colon cancer.  Transverse colon adenocarcinoma.  Dm T2, HTN, high chol, glaucoma.  Transverse colon cancer - extended right hemicolectomy.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right colon" consists of a right hemicolectomy measuring 310mm in length with an attached segment of transverse colon 110mm in length.  Included in the specimen is an attached appendix, 80mm in length and up to 10mm in diameter, and appears unremarkable. 35mm from the distal resection margin there is a sessile tumour, 22 x 19mm.  The tumour appears to invade to a maximum depth of 9mm and abuts the muscularis propria.  There is a further small polypoid area 65mm from the distal resection margin and 35mm from the other tumour measuring 10 x 6mm.  The additional polypoid area appears confined to the mucosa and may represent a prominent mucosal fold.  The remainder of the mucosa reveals multiple diverticula containing impacted faecal material.  No other suspicious areas identified.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified in the mesenteric fat from 3 to 12mm.  
Blocks:  1 -distal resection margin; 2- proximal resection margin; 3 to 6 - tumour all embedded; 7 - small polypoid area; 8 - representative appendix; 9 - diverticulum; 10 - apical lymph node; 11 to 15 - lymph nodes.  (JB/mm 22.5.63) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr E Mcconaghy - 24.5.2063)
The transverse colon tumour is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. A synoptic report for colonic carcinoma follows:
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR COLONIC ADENOCARICNOMA
Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour: Transverse colon.	
Maximum tumour diameter: 22mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 35mm (macroscopic)
Tumour perforation: No

Microscopic Description
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT1	Limited to submucosa
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Thirty.	
Number of lymph nodes involved: None (0/30).	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
The adjacent non-neoplastic colon, as well as, the separately identified nodule, show changes of a moderately active chronic colitis with associated mild to moderate chronic architectural distortion. Similar changes are seen within the mucosa of the appendix. The inflammation appears confined to the mucosa and superficial submucosa. No granulomas or viral inclusions are identified. The appearance is highly suspicious for underlying chronic inflammatory bowel disease. The presence of a diverticulum is confirmed histologically. 
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvant therapy
Not applicable. 
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
pTNM Stage (TNM 7th Edition): IpT1N0Mx	


DIAGNOSIS:
Right hemicolectomy:
22mm pTNM Stage 1 moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.
Immunohistochemistry shows low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
No evidence of malignancy in thirty sampled lymph nodes (0/30).
Background colon shows diverticula and widespread changes highly suspicious for underlyinginflammatory bowel disease. 
Representative slides seen with Dr E Oglesbee.

