Episode No:  60U066606V
608066.RCR

GOTIMER, JERROD 
Lab No:  60U06660
Baker Bridge
BLI BLI  New South Wales  6375
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  20/1/2007
Sex:  M
Collected: 25/7/2063 at :
Location:  DICKINSON 2 SOUTH-CARITAS CHRISTI HOSPICE
DR FRITZ ODELL POUX
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

CLINICAL:
Ca lung (known SCC). L pneumonectomy.  AP window lymph node.  Posterior mediastinal node .  Inferior pulmonary ligament node. 
Additionalinformation obtained:  Smoker, no history of interstitial lung disease, previous engineer.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "AP window lymph node" consists of a lymph node measuring 15 x 7 x 5mm.  AE 3 blocks.
Blocks: 1 & 2 - frozen section; 3 - fibrofatty tissue.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Benign.  
Result to Anaesthetist registrar by Dr R Roosa at 3.30pm on 23/5/13.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Left lung" consists of a pneumonectomy measuring 200 x 150 x 90mm.  Part of the pleural surface onthe upper and lower lobes appears roughened and wrinkled.  The main bronchus is 32mm in length x 20 x 12mm in maximum diameter.  The left upper main bronchus contains a tan firm tumour 22mm from the surgicalbronchial margin.  The hilum measures 60 x 40mm and there are two hilar lymph nodes identified.  There is a solid heterogeneous pale tan mass abutting the pulmonary hilar vessels and the pleura on the upper lobe.  The tumour does not appear to invade the lower lobe.  The lung parenchyma appears unremarkable aside from an area below the roughened pleura which appears congested.  The lower lobe parenchyma appears normal.  
Blocks: 1 - bronchial margin; 2 & 3 - vascular margin; 4 to 10 - representative tumour (4 to 6 - paired blocks showing tumour through left uppermain bronchus,  vascular and pleural margins, 7 & 8 paired blocks); 11 - normal lung away from tumour upper lobe; 12 - congested lung upper lobe; 13 - congested lung below puckered pleura lower lobe; 14 to 16 - hilar lymph nodes (14 - one lymph node bisected; 15 - one lymph node bisected; 16 - one ?lymph node).; 17 to 22- additional tissue left lower lobe 
C.  Specimen labelled "AP window lymph node" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 25 x 12 x 7mm containing lymph nodes. AE 1 block.
  
D.  Specimen labelled "Left coronal lymph node" consists of a lymph node measuring 9 x 5 x 4mm.   BAE 1 block.
E.  Specimen labelled "Inferior pulmonary ligaments lymph node" consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 5 and 7mm in maximum dimension.   AE 1 block. (LH/vo 30.7.63)
  
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr R Larger):
A.  Paraffin sections of the lymph node confirm no evidence of malignancy.
B.  Sections show a moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma arising from the upper main bronchus.  The tumour is mainly exophytic in nature, filling the bronchus.  There is extension into the bronchial soft tissue, surrounding cartilage and infiltrating peribronchial glands, with minimal infiltration of alveolar tissue.  Focal lymphovascular invasion is identified but no perineural invasion is seen.  Adjacent carcinoma in situ is seen within the bronchus.  The tumour lies greater than 10mm from the bronchial resection margin and no pleural invasion is identified.   One (1) of the eight (8) hilar lymph nodes shows metastatic squamous cell carcinoma.
The lung parenchyma within the upper lobe shows no significant abnormality, however the lung parenchyma with in the lower lobe shows patchy interstitial fibrosis and chronic inflammation which includes moderate numbers of eosinophils.  Scattered loose fibroblastic foci are seen.  There is extensive subpleural collapse and fibrosis.  Scattered stellate scars showing muscularisation are also present.  No definite CD1a histiocytes are seen.  Small granulomas are also present, some of which lie adjacent to intermediate sized blood vessels.  The significance of these findings within the lower lobe is uncertain and a further opinion will be sought.
C.   The five (5) lymph nodes identified show no evidence of malignancy.
D.   The one (1) lymph node identified shows no evidence of malignancy. 
E.   The one (1) lymph node identified shows no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:  
A - E.  Left lung and lymph nodes:
- Moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the left upper main bronchus.
- Size approximately 20mm.
- Bronchial resection margin and pleura free of tumour.
- One positive lymph node
- Patchy fibrosis and inflammation within lower lobe, uncertain significance 
ADDITIONAL REPORT (26.9.63):
Report from IMVS's Pathology:  
Reported by:  Dr R R Breier:  
OPINION ON OUTSIDE SLIDES AT THE REQUEST OF: DR ROBBY SUVADA
The specimen consists of a left lung.  In the upper lobe there is a squamous cell carcinoma thatshows extensive intrabronchial nodules of carcinoma.  The lower lobe is unaffected by tumour.
Within the lower lobe there is an interstitial process.  Scattered through the lung there are numerous small stellate fibrotic scars that extend into the adjacent alveolar parenchyma.  Many of these scars are associated with relatively recent fibrosis and Masson body formation.  In addition to these changes small areas of the alveolar parenchyma show thickeningand contain a mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate.  Around the scars and within the thickened interstitial areas eosinophils are relatively common and occasional small granulomas are seen.  The pleural is predominantly normal but in occasional areas pleural fibrosis with fibrosis of the underlying alveolar parenchyma has occurred.  Stains for S100 and CD1a are negative in that they fail to show Langerhan histiocytes within the foci of fibrosis.
Sections of the non-tumorous upper lobe do not show these changes.
Overall these changes are difficult to interpret.  The general morphological appearance of the stellate scars would be in keeping with a Langerhans histiocytosis but this is almost invariably a diffuse process and does not account for the lack of changeswithin the interstitium of the upper lobe.  The appearances are not those of a usual interstitial pneumonitis with good preservation of the subpleural alveolar parenchyma in many areas.  In addition true fibroblastic foci are not present.
Overall the appearances raise a relatively wide differential.  The changes could be due to an extrinsic allergic alveolitis with the lack of changes seen within the upper lobe accounted for by the blockage of the bronchi bytumour.  This would account for the lack of diffuse changes.
Such changes raise the possibility of a Langerhans histiocytosis but this diagnosis cannot be sustained in the absence of demonstrating active Langerhan histiocytes in the affected areas.  In addition a Langerhans histiocytosis would be expected to be diffuse.
Such changes could be accounted for by an old viral infection such as chicken pox but again this does not explain the focal nature of the changes and does not explain the apparent immature fibrosis affecting many areas.  Overall I would interpret these changes as probably representing a form of extrinsic allergic alveolitis.  The antigen eliciting this response is unknown and the possibility that is a tumour related phenomenon could be considered.
The statusof the patient's remaining lung will be of interest and any evidence of a continuing interstitial process within the retained lung would warrant further investigation.

