Episode No:  87Q675933L
8766759.IJL

SWING, KORY 
Lab No:  87Q67593
Back Halliwell
SAWTELL  TAS5083
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  21/7/2000
Sex:  F
Collected: Unknown at :
Location:  ACUTECARE WARD-ANGASTON HOSPITAL
DR SONNY SALVADOR RYBIJ
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
E/O left breast mass.  ?phyllodes.  Sutures long lateral, short superior, medium medial.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Left breast tissue long lateral, medium medial, short superior" consists of an irregular piece of fibrofatty tissue with three sutures for orientation measuring 30mm(medial to lateral) x 20mm (superior to inferior) x 20mm (superficial to deep) margin.  The superior margin is inked blue, inferior margin black, superficial margin red, deep margin yellow.  Specimen is serially sectioned from lateral to medial.  On sectioning there is a white fibrous nodule measuring 20 x 10 x 10mm.  AE from lateral to medial.  
Blocks: 1- lateral margin; 2 to 6 - serial sections from  lateral to medial; 7 - medial margin.  (BE/ta 10/2/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr W Ramis):
Sections show a fibroepithelial lesion characterised by an epithelial component arranged in clefts surrounded by an overgrowing mesenchymal component focally organised in leaf-like structures. The epithelial component shows a spectrum of proliferative changes including florid usual ductal hyperplasia, columnar cell change and atypical ductal hyperplasia. The stromal component is moderately cellular and shows varying degrees of fibrosis. There is mild to moderatecytological atypia of the stromal spindle cells and a mitotic count of up to 3 per 10 high power fields is identified. Although the lesion is mostly circumscribed with a pushing border, irregular infiltration into the surrounding breast tissue is focally present. The morphological appearance is consistent with a borderline phyllodes tumour. 
Excision margins of phyllodes tumour
Medial 		>10mm
Lateral		>10mm
Superficial 	1mm 	(Block 3)
Deep		3mm	(Block 2)
Superior	0.6mm	(Block 2)	
Inferior		2.2mm	(Block 2)
The remainder of the breast shows proliferative changes similar to that seen within the phyllodes tumour including florid usualductal hyperplasia, columnar cell change and atypical ductal hyperplasia. Definite diagnostic features of ductal carcinoma in situ are not identified. There is no evidence of invasive epithelial malignancy.
COMMENT: Fibroepithelial lesions are well known in their ability to induce proliferative changes in the overlying epithelium. However, given the widespread proliferative changes seen within the tumour and the surrounding breasttissue, it is best to regard some of these as atypical ductal hyperplasia given the presence of moderate cytological atypia and mitoses.


DIAGNOSIS:
Left breast mass
- PHYLLODES TUMOUR, BORDERLINE
- FLORID EPITHELIAL HYPERPLASIA INCLUDING ATYPICAL DUCTAL HYPERPLASIA
The slides have also been seen by A/Prof W Goosen.


