 8037009.KNN
WAGNER, REED FRANK
80K70094

Last edited : 16/1/2062		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Dilated left hepatic duct.  Left hepatectomy, dilated left hepatic duct on imaging with stricture.  ?Cholangio ?left duct stone disease.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left hemi-hepatectomy" consists of a left hemi-hepatectomy specimen measuring 115 x 90 x 48mm and weighing 215g.  The falciform ligament is identified 30mm from the margin.  The left hepatic duct is identified witha tie around the duct.  Sectioning through a branch of the main duct (towards the central and anterior aspect) shows a stricture and multiple stones measuring from 1mm to 5mm in greatest dimension.  The stenotic area is approximately 8mmin length.  The liver otherwise shows no unusual features.  
Blocks: 1 - bile duct margin; 2 - vascular margin; 3 to 7 - dilated duct and adjacent liver (block 7 - stricture); 8 & 9 - posterior branch of duct with dilatation; 10 - liver.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of an intact gallbladder 90mm in length and 35mm in diameter at fundus.  The serosal surface appears smooth.  The mucosa isgreen with patchy yellowish streaks.  No gallstones are identified.  No lymph nodes are present.  
Blocks: 1 - cystic duct margin; 2 - body; 3 - fundus.(ZX/Ta 14/1/62) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr F Driever): 
A. The sections of liver show marked dilatation of some of the bile ducts.   Fragmented calculi and inspissated biliary material are noted in some ducts. These are surrounded by fibrosis with patchy chronic inflammation, dystrophic calcification, cholesterol crystals and associated foreign body reaction.  Proliferated small bile ducts and areas of mucinous metaplasia are also present.  Patchy cholestasis is seen in adjacent liver.  There is no evidence of malignancy or dysplasia.
B. The sections of the gallbladder show foci of cholesterolosis. There is no evidence of malignancyor dysplasia.
CONCLUSION
A. Liver: Dilated ducts, calculi, fibrosis and reactive changes.
B. Gallbladder:  Cholesterolosis.

