SPR no: 82R524608R
MRN no: 8265246
Site_name: W265
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report82R52460 (82R524608R) YELEY, ALEX NEWTON

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Colorectal cancer.  Peritonectomy.  Spleen, gallbladder, peritoneum, small bowel, rectum (ileorectal ansastomosis) retroperitoneal lymph node.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;BILATERAL DIAPHRAGM STRIPPING, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, RECTUM, UTERUS, PERITONEUM&amp;quot;. Consists of a spleen with attached fatty tissue, gallbladder, uterus with attached anastomosed small and large bowel includes right fallopian tube and right ovary. There is a possible left fallopian tube.  No left ovarian tissue is identified, and multiple pieces of fibrous tissue, some with attached muscle and some consistent with peritoneum.

Spleen with attached fatty tissue altogether weighs 169g.  It measures 115x70x30mm.  On the capsular surface there is a mucinous deposit of tumour of an area measuring 30x25mm.  The attached piece of fatty tissue is 260x30mm.  On sectioning through the spleen, it has a spongy red to brown cut surface.  No discrete mass lesions are identified.  Within the fatty tissue ? consistent with omentum is deposit of mucinous tumour.

(1&amp;amp;2 spleen, 3&amp;amp;4 fatty tissue consistent with omentum)

Gallbladder - it measures 80mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm.  It is received collapsed.  The surface is covered by mucinous deposits of tumour.  The wall is up to 4mm thick.  Mucosa is granular green in appearance.  No stones are found within the lumen.

(5&amp;amp;6 gallbladder [5 cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 6 body and fundus])

Pieces of fibrofatty tissue including muscle ? diaphragm measures 100x70x15mm in aggregate.

(7&amp;amp;8 ? diaphragm stripping)

Separate pieces of fibrous tissue consistent with peritoneum altogether 220x90x10mm.  The strips of fibrous tissue are covered by mucinous deposits of tumour.

(9-11 peritoneum [11 tumour block])

Separate piece of small bowel measuring 30mm in length x 12mm maximum diameter with attached mesentery measuring up to 30mm wide.  The serosal  surface shows areas of adhesion.  On opening the mucosa is unremarkable.

(12 small bowel)

Uterus with attached cervix and right and left fallopian tube with attached peritoneum and anastomosed small bowel plus large bowel (rectum).  It is received enbloc.  The segment of small bowel anastomosed to large bowel measures 120mm in length with a proximal diameter of 15mm, distal diameter of 18mm. The serosal  surface shows nodular areas consistent with ? tumour deposit.  On opening the lumen, it shows a side of anastomosis.  No discrete lesion is identified.  Proximal margin inked blue, distal black.

(13 margins; 14 serosa showing nodules; 15 site of anastomosis)

The uterus with attached cervix measures 60mm superior to inferior, 15mm anterior endomyometrium, 14mm posterior endomyometrium. The endometrium is less than a 1mm thick. The ectocervix measures 25x20mm with a slit like os 10mm.  It is cream coloured and unremarkable. The serosal  surface shows areas of adhesion.  There is also noted mucinous deposit of tumour.  Altogether the specimen including the anastomotic small and large bowel weighs 260g.  On sectioning there is noted intramural nodule within the myometrium consistent with a leiomyoma.  It has a pale white whorled cut surface.  Also noted underlying the Pouch of Douglas and adherent to the segment of large bowel is left ovary.

(16 anterior cervix; 17 posterior cervix; 18 anterior endomyometrium including leiomyoma; 19 posterior endomyometrium section taken at Pouch of Douglas; 20 serosa with mucinous deposit of tumour)

The right ovary weighs 6.3g and measures 20x15x10mm.  The serosal  surface is covered by mucinous deposit of tumour. The right fallopian tube measures 55mm in length with a maximum diameter of 6mm. Serosa is smooth.  The left ovary measures 20x20x15mm.  It is adherent to the rectum underlying the Pouch of Douglas. The serosal  surface appears smooth.  On sectioning the cut surface reveals a glistening cut surface.  It weighs 16g.  Presumed left fallopian tube is 40mm in length x 6mm maximum diameter.

(21 right ovary; 22 right fallopian tube; 23&amp;amp;24 CS of left ovary in relation to myometrium, Pouch of Douglas and rectum; 25 further section of left ovary in relation to Pouch of Douglas; 26 ? left fallopian tube). RS (M-26)

B.  &amp;quot;RETROPERITONEAL/PARA-AORTIC LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;. Consists of a piece of fatty tissue altogether 40x35x10mm.  Two possible nodes identified.

(1 one node; 2 one node bisected). RS (M-2)

C.  &amp;quot;ABDOMINAL WALL TUMOUR DEPOSIT&amp;quot;. Consists of one fibrous piece of tissue 7mm maximum dimension. AE (1-1/MC/ank)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. W. Lorenz)
A.  Sections show metastatic poorly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma comprising of extracellular lakes of mucin associated with signet ring cells.

The carcinoma is seen to involve splenic capsule, serosa of gallbladder, omentum, separately submitted peritoneal fragments, serosa of small segment of small bowel, serosa and muscularis of rectum and ileum from the ileorectal anastomotic site.

The cervix shows no significant abnormality.  The endometrium is inactive.  The myometrium shows a benign leiomyoma.  Metastatic deposits of poorly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma are seen involving both ovaries and serosa of both fallopian tubes.  In addition there are serosal  deposits of mucinous adenocarcinoma on the posterior surface of the uterus and in Pouch of Douglas. The left ovary is attached to perirectal soft tissues through deposits of mucinous adenocarcinoma.  Sections through diaphragm appear clear of tumour.

B.  Sections show deposits of poorly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells involving soft tissues adjacent to a traumatic neuroma.  No lymph node is identified.

C.  Sections show fragment of poorly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells.

DIAGNOSIS:
BILATERAL DIAPHRAGM STRIPPING, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, RECTUM, UTERUS, PERITONEUM :
-DISSEMINATED POORLY DIFFERENTIATED MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA WITH SIGNET RING CELLS.

RETROPERITONEAL PARA-AORTIC LYMPH NODE :
-METASTATIC DEPOSITS OF POORLY DIFFERENTIATED MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA WITH SIGNET RING CELLS.
-TRAUMATIC NEUROMA.

ABDOMINAL WALL TUMOUR DEPOSITS :
-DEPOSIT OF POORLY DIFFERENTIATED MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA WITH SIGNET RING CELLS.

21/12/2066 ank
