SPR no: 64R886591H
MRN no: 646886
Site_name: THE FORENSIC HOSPITAL
Facility_id: MR
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report64R88659 (64R886591H) BROTEMARKLE, ELENORA TRANG

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Stage III Ca ovary serous.
1. Falx.
2. Right diaphragm.
3. Omentum.
4. Uterus, cervix, both tubes and ovaries.  Pouch of Douglas.
5. Appendix.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;UTERUS WITH CERVIX, BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES&amp;quot;. A total hysterectomy specimen of a total weight of 118g.  Consists of a uterus measuring 65x45x25mm. The attached cervix measures 30x30x22mm.  The right fallopian tube measures 70x6mm. The right ovary measures 35x17x12mm. The left fallopian tube measures 65x5mm and the left ovary measures 35x15x11mm.  Attached is a part of peritoneum posteriorly at the Pouch of Douglas measuring 60x60x10mm. The serosal surface reveals multiple disseminated peritoneal deposits involving the Pouch of Douglas peritoneum, the fimbrial end of the right fallopian tube, the serosa surface of the right ovary with the adjacent parametrial tissue.  The surface of the left fallopian tube and the left ovary as well as the peritoneal surface of the uterus anteriorly.  The identified endometrium is up to 3mm thick.  The myometrium is trabeculated and up to 11mm thick. Blood clots are present within the endometrial cavity.  The endocervix and the external os are unremarkable. The anterior cervix is inked blue, the posterior black.  The cut surface of the right fallopian tube reveals a firm white lesion arising from the fimbrial end measuring 15mm in maximum diameter.  The cut surface of the right ovary reveals firm white areas on the surface of the ovary as well as within the cut surface and the adjacent broad ligament tissue.  Similar firm white deposits are identified on the surface of the left ovary.  The cut surface of the left fallopian tube is unremarkable.  There is disseminated tumour deposits involving the Pouch of Douglas peritoneum as well as the adjacent fat bilaterally with firm white cut surface.

(1-5 LS of the uterus [1 anterior cervix, 2 anterior isthmus and body, 3 fundus, 4 posterior body, 5 posterior cervix]; 6 haemorrhagic endometrial cavity; 7 right tube fimbrial end lesion bisected; 8 RS three TS right tube; 9-11 RS firm white areas right ovary with adjacent broad ligament tissue lesion; 12&amp;amp;13 left tube; 14&amp;amp;15 left ovary with serosal deposits; 16-18 RS involved pouch of Douglas peritoneum).  RS (M-18)

B.  &amp;quot;APPENDIX&amp;quot;.  An appendix measuring 40x7mm with mesoappendix to a width of 20mm. The outer surface is smooth and tan in colour. The wall is up to 4mm thick. The lumen is filled with firm white material.  No definite lesions are identified.

(1 base [two LS and one TS]; 2 four TS mid; 3 tip [two LS and one TS, all appendix embedded).  RS (10-3)

C.  &amp;quot;OMENTUM&amp;quot;.  Multiple unorientated fibrofatty pieces of tissue consistent with omentum measuring 250x180x50mm with disseminated disease involving all the omentum (omental caking). The cut surface confirms firm white infiltrative lesion across the lesion.  Representative samples taken.

(1-4 RS involved omentum; 5 tumour block for tissue banking). RS (M-4)

D.  &amp;quot;RIGHT DIAPHRAGM&amp;quot;. A tan fibrous piece of tissue consistent with peritoneum measuring 120x70x10mm.  It has a smooth surface that is extensively involved with disseminated white nodules (2-5mm). The other surface is ragged and unremarkable.  Representative samples of the nodules are taken.  RS (M-3)

E.  &amp;quot;FALX&amp;quot;. A fibrofatty piece of tissue measuring 95x65x20mm.  It has a smooth outer surface.  No definite serosal nodules are identified.  The cut surface reveals a white fibrous tubular structure with no definite adjacent lesions identified.

(1&amp;amp;2 elongated fibrous structure; 3&amp;amp;4 RS other tissue).  RS (M-4/ZH/ank)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr P Chaplen)
A.  Sections demonstrate high grade serous carcinoma with typical branching papillary architecture and poorly-formed slit-like glandular spaces with high nuclear grade cytology including granular chromatin, nucleoli and nuclear shape and membrane irregularities.  Many mitotic figures are seen and focal areas of necrosis are identified.  Psammomatous calcifications are seen in some areas.  Tumour is seen at the fimbrial end of the right fallopian tube including stromal invasion.  There is also tumour involving the right ovary, the left ovary (both with surface and stromal invasion), the serosa of the left fallopian tube, the serosa of the uterus, and the peritoneal reflections of the uterus (pouch of Douglas).

Sections of the cervix are unremarkable.  The endometrium is inactive and the myometrium is unremarkable.

B.  Sections show a deposit of high grade serous carcinoma on the peritoneal surface of the mesoappendix.  The remainder of the appendix appears unremarkable.

C.  Sections show omentum infiltrated by high grade serous carcinoma including psammomatous calcifications and desmoplastic stromal reaction.

D.  The sections show peritoneum with underlying fibrofatty tissue.  There are deposits of high grade serous carcinoma.

E.  The sections show fatty tissue with focal high grade serous carcinoma.

Comment:  There is high grade serous carcinoma involving the fimbrial end of the right fallopian tube, the right and left ovaries, the serosa of the left fallopian tube and the uterus and adjacent uterine peritoneal reflections.  Serous carcinoma also involves the serosal surface of the mesoappendix and is present in the omentum and with involvement of the right diaphragm and falx.

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  UTERUS WITH CERVIX AND BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES -
- HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA - SEE TEXT AND COMMENT.

B.  APPENDIX:  HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA

C.  OMENTUM:  HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA

D.  RIGHT DIAPHRAGM:  HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA

E.  FALX:  HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA

8/10/2066 nh
