Episode No:  64Z288335J
6492883.JOJ

Renn, LONG 
Lab No:  64Z28833,64Z28833
Spinaker
KAPUNDA  QLD  2069
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  22/2/2032
Sex:  F
Collected: 1/7/2063 at :
Location:  OPERATING THEATRES - BOORT DISTRICT HEALTH
DR Bernetta LUANA Mcfan
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

CLINICAL:
35 year old, female, pseudomyxoma peritonei 2 years, suspected adnexal masses, increased CEA, CA 19.9, ascites.  Clinically, abdomen filled with mucin, 20cm right left ovarian tumour filled with mucin, appendix and bowel seemed normal.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary" consists of a solid (<5%) and cystic (95%) ovary measuring 260 x 200 x 120mm.  There is an attached fallopian tube measuring 75mm in length.  The cyst contains predominantly mucinous material.  Some hair and keratotic debris is also present.  The inner lining of the cyst is smooth.  The solid area shows translucent gelatinous tissue.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section one; 2 - frozen section two;3 - frozen section three; 4 - frozen section four; 5 to 20 - representative tumour; 21 - two representative TS fallopian tube; 22 - two LS fimbrial end of fallopian tube.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Benign mucinous epithelium lining cyst wall on frozen section.
Result to Dr Q Cocroft by Dr Q. Pezzulo on the 5th of November 2013 at 1:30pm.
B.  Specimenlabelled "Right ovarian cyst" consists of a dark brown cystic structure measuring 33 x 27 x 20mm.  The cyst is filled with haemorrhagic material.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representative tissue.
C.  Specimen labelled "Biopsy of right ovary" consists of a piece of cream tissue measuring 14 x 4 x 2mm.  AE 1 block.
D.  Specimen labelled "Appendix"consists of an appendix measuring 60mm in length with a maximum diameter of 13mm.  The serosal surface appears congested.
Blocks:  1 - two LS proximal  1/3 ; 2 - two representative TS mid  1/3 ; 3 & 4 - two LS distal  1/3 .
E.  Specimen labelled "Solid right ovarian mass" consists of a piece of cream tissue measuring 8 x 4 x 4mm.  AE 1 block.
F.  Specimen labelled "Endometrial curettings" consists of curettings measuring 25x 25 x 5mm in aggregate.  AE 1 block.
G.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of omentum measuring 200 x 170 x 30mm.  The omentum shows patchy involvement by grey mucinous material.  No definite solid tumour is identified.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.
(DD/rt 1.8.63)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Q Pruyn):
A.  Sections show a low grade borderline mucinous tumour.  Greaterthan 10% of the mucinous epithelium shows nuclear stratification with occasional mitoses.  The CK7 and CK20 stains are positive consistent with an ovarian primary.  An incidental mature teratoma is also present.  Extensive mucin extravasation is present within the ovarian stroma and also on the surface of the fallopian tube.  The fallopian tube otherwise shows no significant abnormality.
B.  Sections show a cyst containing organizing haemorrhage.  No epithelial lining is present and the exact nature of the cyst cannot be ascertained.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Sections of ovary show a small deposit of surface mucin.  No other significant abnormality is identified.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
D.  Sections of the appendix show serosal adhesions admixed with mucin.  The appendix otherwise shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
E.  Sectionsof ovary show no significant abnormality.  No discrete lesion is identified.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
F.  Sections show proliferative endometrium.  There is no evidence of endometritis, hyperplasia or malignancy.
G.  Sections of omentum show adhesions and mesothelial hyperplasia admixed with surface mucin.  No mucinous epithelium is present.  Three lymph nodes are identified, which show no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSES:
A.  Left tube and ovary:
- Low grade borderline mucinous tumour of the ovary.
- Mature teratoma.
- Extensive mucin extravasation.
B.  Right ovarian cyst:  Benign cyst of uncertain origin.
C.  Right ovary:  Surface mucin.
D.  Appendix:  Surface mucin.
E.  Solidright ovarian mass:  No significant abnormality.
F.  Endometrial curettings:  Proliferative endometrium.
G.  Omentum:
- Mucin extravasation and adhesions.
- Three negative lymph nodes.

