Episode No:  55X992584L
558992.NVM

Economides, Leopoldo 
Lab No:  55X99258
Off Summer
LAKES ENTRANCE  Australian Capital Territory  2165
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  28/10/2015
Sex:  M
Collected:24/06/2013 at 09:19
Location:  Forensic Medicine-GOULBURN VALLEY HEALTH - CENTRE FOR OLDER PERSONS
DR Tommie Herschel Uglow
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Glottic SCC.  Previous Irradiation.  Partial laryngectomy for recurrence.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Subglottic mucosa anterior commissure", consists of a piece of tissue 6 x 4 x 2mm.All embedded in 1 block for frozen section.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Arytenoid mucosa level of false vocal cord", consists of a piece of tissue 7 x 4 x 3mm.  All embedded in 1 block for frozen section.  
C.Specimen labelled "Arytenoid mucosa (right) level of tissue vocal cord", consists of piece of tissue 10 x 4 x 1mm.  All embedded in 1 block for frozen section.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Soft tissue right piriform fossa", consists of two small pieces of tissue 3 and 4mm.  All embedded in 1 block for frozen section.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A, B & D.  Negative for malignancy.
C.  In situ SCC in minor salivary gland.
Phoneresults to Dr. OZELL MARTINDALE at 1:53pm on 24.06.13 by P Angers, P Petters and P. Zent.
E.  Specimen labelled "Right intra-arytenoid mucosa inferior", consists of a piece of tissue 3 x 2 x 1mm.  All embedded in 1 block for frozen section.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
E.  Negative for malignancy.
Phone results to Dr Perry Lavell at 2:05pm on 24.06.13.
F.  Specimen labelled "Right arytenoid suture on vocal process", consists of an irregular piece of tissue with overlying mucosa with one suture for orientation.  Vocal process taken as 12 o'clock.  Specimen measures 20mm from 12 to 6 o'clock and 10mm from 3 to 9 o'clock with a maximum thickness of 10mm.  The 3 o'clock margin is inked blue and the 9 o'clock margin is inked black.  The specimen is serially sectioned from 12 to 6 o'clock and all embedded in 7 blocks from 12 to 6 o'clock.
G.  Specimen labelled "Neck level II III IV (right)", consists of and irregular piece of fatty tissue 40 x 40x 15mm containing multiple lymph nodes ranging from 2 to 5mm.  
Blocks:  1 - six possible lymph nodes; 2 to 7 - rest of tissue.  
H.  Specimen unlabelled as to site or nature consists of partial laryngectomy witha piece of skeletal muscle attached.  The partial laryngectomy measures 80mm from superior to inferior and 35mm in maximum diameter.  The piece of skeletal muscle measures 70 x 30 x 30mm.  The specimen is received opened posteriorly.On the anterior surface of the infraglottic space and 15mm below the true vocal cord there is an ulcerated tumour 7mm from superior to inferior and 15mm in maximum diameter it is located 10 mm from the inferior resection margin. The rest ofthe mucosa surface is shiny and smooth.   The right anterior surgical margin is inked blue, the left anterior surgical margin is inked black.  The posterior surgical margin is inked red.  The piece of attached muscle is serially sectioned and two possible lymph nodes are identified. 
Blocks:  1 & 2 - longitudinal sections right vestibule; 3 & 4 - longitudinal sections left vestibule; 5 - one full transverse section from false vocal cord; 6 - one full transverse section through true vocal cord; 7 - one transverse section through area of ulceration; 8 - one section from inferior shave section from inferior margin of laryngeal mucosa; 9 - one longitudinal section through the ulcerated area (after shaving of surgical margin); 10 & 11 - two longitudinal sections of right inferior soft tissue margin; 12 & 13 - two longitudinal sections from left inferior soft tissue margin; 14 - two possible lymph nodes; 15 ,16 & 17 - representativesections from  attached muscle and adipose tissue  (see diagram)  (IF/vo 27.8.63)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Y Wakins & Dr Y Sorell):
A & B.  Paraffin sections confirm no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Frozen section show carcinoma in situ.  A small group of atypical squamous cells are seen within the stroma of the paraffin sections.
D & E. Paraffin sections confirm no evidence of malignancy.
F.  Sections show arytenoid cartilage, skeletal muscle and transitional mucosa with no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
G.  The twenty-six (26) lymph nodes identified show no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
H.  Sections show moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, size approximately 15mm, situated in the subglotic space just inferior to the true vocal cord.  No perineural or lymphovascular space invasion is seen.  The tumour is situated predominantly on the right side, however there is minor extension across the anterior commissure to the left side.  Carcinoma extends to the thyroid cartilage anteriorly, but does not penetrate it, and the tumour is well clear of the posterior resection margin.  The carcinoma lies approximately 10mm from the tracheal resection margin.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Subglottic mucosa anterior commissure:  No evidence of malignancy.

B.  Arytenoid mucosa level of false vocal cord:  No evidence of malignancy.
C.  Arytenoid mucosa (right) level of tissue vocal cord:  Carcinoma in situ.
D.  Soft tissue right piriform fossa:  No evidence of malignancy. 
.  Right intra-arytenoid mucosa inferior:  No evidence of malignancy.
F.  Right arytenoid:  No evidence of malignancy. 
G.  Right neck level II III IV:  26 negative lymph noes

H.  Partial laryngectomy:
- Moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of subglotic space
- Size 15mm
- Margins clear

