Episode No:  93B373421G
9303734.FEG

LIZOTTE, ASHTON 
Lab No:  93B37342,93B37342
Butterfly
ALDGATE  ACT  5640
Specimen: Fluid,Tissue
D.O.B:  20/8/1994
Sex:  F
Collected: Unknown at :
Location:  WEST GYNAECOLOGY - BLACKWATER HOSPITAL
DR CARISSA JAQUELINE Bobak
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY, DR Sansouci
CLINICAL:
73 year old lady Ca 125 > 1000, CEA and Ca 19.9 normal.  Enlarged right ovary.  Hypertension, angiogram.  Small bowel mesentery nodule.  Pelvic mass Ca 125 1469, CEA 1, Ca 19.9 13.  (R) tube + ovary - stitch where abnormal area is.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left tube/ovary" consists of a fallopian tube 45 x 9mm and ovary 40 x 12 x 10mm.  No obvious tumour is seen.  One representative section of ovary for frozen section.  (Small piece of tube and ovary sampled for tumour banking - Textron Inc).
Blocks:1 - frozen section tissue; 2 & 3 - TS fallopian tube and ovary; 4 - includes fimbria which is entirely embedded; 5 & 6 - attached soft tissue; 7 - fallopian tube with attached soft tissue.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Microscopic deposits of serous carcinoma on ovary.
Phone result to Anaesthetist by Dr Z Rolstad at 17.25 on 7/11/12.
B.  Specimen labelled "Right tube + right ovary" consistsof an ovary 30 x 15 x 12mm and attached tube 30 x 5mm.  A stitch is attached over a nodule 20 x 12mm.  Two representative sections for frozen section.  (Small piece of tube and ovary sampled for tumour banking - Garvan Institute).
Blocks:  1 & 2 - frozen section tissue; 3 & 4 - representative ovary and fallopian tube; 5 - fimbrial end.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Serous carcinoma.
Phone result to Anaesthetist by Dr Z Fedor at 17.45 on 7/11/12.
C.  Specimen labelled "Uterus + cervix" consists of a uterus with attached cervix weighing 67g.  The uterus measures 62 x 55 x 42mm.  The anterior serosal surface appears ragged with fine fibroadipose tissue adhesions.  The posterior serosa has a roughened appearance with multiple fibrofatty adhesions and possible tumour deposits.  The cervix measures 30 x 25mm and shows an unremarkable appearance.  The anterior endometrium includes a polyp 12 x 10 x 10mm.  Elsewhere the endometrium is <1mm in thickness.  The myometrium is up to 15mm in thickness.  There are no fibroids.  The right cornu appears nodular which on sectioning there is a solid cystic tumour 15mm in greatest dimension.  The solid component comprises approximately 50%of the tumour.  The left cornu appears unremarkable.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - full LS of anterior cervix and body (with polyp entirely embedded in blocks 2 and 3); 4 to 6 - one LS full face of posterior body and cervix; 7 & 8 - right cornu.
D.  Specimen labelled "Right uterosacral" consists of three pieces of fibrofatty tissue ranging from 7 to 35mm with an aggregate measurement of 35 x 25 x 17mm.  AE.
Blocks:  1 - two smaller fragments; 2 & 3 - largest fragment.
E.  Specimen labelled "Descending colon" consists of five pieces of irregularly shaped fibrofatty tissue ranging from 3 to 20mm with an aggregate measurement of 38 x 20 x 20mm.  On sectioning, most of the tissue appearsto be involved by a firm cream tumour.  One representative block (three pieces).
F.  Specimen labelled "Omental nodule" consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue 30 and 21mm in greatest dimension with an aggregate measurement of 30 x 25 x 6mm.  AE one block. 
G.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a portion of omentum measuring 180 x 110 x 25mm.  Sectioning shows several small firm off-white nodules measuring up to 5mm in diameter.  These nodules/tumour deposits comprise <5% of the tissue.  Representative sections in three blocks.
H.  Specimen labelled "Appendix" consists of an appendix 55 x 7mm with attached mesoappendix up to 25mm in width.  There is a small nodule attached to the serosal surface of the proximal one-third of the appendix. 
Blocks:  1 - tip; 2 - TS mid; 3 - two LS proximal third.
I.  Specimen labelled "Bowel mesentery lymph node" consists of a small 5mm nodulewith attached fat.  AE one block.    (VI/cc  1/10/62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Z Giehl): 
A.  Sections of ovary show several foci of poorly differentiated high grade serous papillary adenocarcinoma.  The carcinoma shows a mixture of closely packed papillae, slit-like spaces and solid sheet like areas.  The fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality.
B.  Sections show several foci of poorly differentiated high grade serous papillary adenocarcinoma involving the ovary and fallopian tube.  The appearances are similar to those described in the specimen A.  Possible lymphovascular invasion is seen.
C.  Sections of uterus show several foci of poorly differentiated high grade serous papillary adenocarcinoma involving the serosa, adnexa and right cornu.  Within the uterine cavity, there is a benign endometrial polyp with cystically dilated glands.  The rest of endometrium is unremarkable.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  The cervix is unremarkable.
D.  Sections show fibrofatty tissue with foci of poorly differentiated high grade serous papillary adenocarcinoma.
E.  Sections show fibrofatty tissue with foci of poorly differentiated high grade serous papillary adenocarcinoma.  The muscularis propria is not involved by the carcinoma.
F.  Sections show fibrofatty tissue with several foci of high grade serous papillaryadenocarcinoma.
G.  Sections show fibrofatty tissue with several foci of high grade serous papillary adenocarcinoma.  Within the fatty tissue, three lymph nodes are identified.  Two of three lymph nodes are involved by metastatic serous adenocarcinoma.
H.  Sections of appendix show a large deposit of high grade serous papillary adenocarcinoma involving the serosa and muscle wall of appendix.  The mucosa is not involved.  Separately, there is a serrated adenoma present at the tip of appendix.  There is no evidence of high grade dysplasia.  The mucosa of body and proximal part of appendix is unremarkable.
I.  Sections show fibrofatty tissue with a small area of high gradeserous papillary adenocarcinoma.  No lymph node is identified.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left tube and ovary - Serous papillary adenocarcinoma.
B.  Right tube and ovary - Serous papillary adenocarcinoma.
C.  Uterus and cervix - Serous papillary adenocarcinoma.
D.  Right uterosacral - Serous papillary adenocarcinoma.
E.  Descending colon - Serous papillary adenocarcinoma.
F.  Omental nodule - Serous papillary adenocarcinoma.
G.  Omentum - Serous papillary adenocarcinoma.
H.  Appendix - Serous papillary adenocarcinoma.  Serrated adenoma.
I.  Bowel mesentery lymph node - Fibrofatty tissue with serous papillary adenocarcinoma.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (23/3/2064):
ER and PR stains are requested by Dr WINDY Hennings.
The stains are performed on block A1.  The tumour cells are positive for PR (strong staining in 70% of tumour cells) and are negative for ER.

