Episode No:  89F7914306
891791.LIB

Ferreri, Eddie 
Lab No:  89F79143
Crooked Yard
WESTON  SA  6940
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  6/4/1995
Sex:M
Collected: 22/01/2014 at 14:04
Location:  DICKINSON 2 SOUTH-YEA AND DISTRICT MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
DR VINCENZO Aidan Helger
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
See prev resection 2063.  Margin R shoulder tumour.  Sutures - short towards tumour - long lateral.
Additional history:  High grade pleomorphic sarcoma with focal osteosarcomatous component resected in April 2063.  6 o'clock margin positive.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "6 o'clock margin right shoulder tumour short suture towards tumour, long suture lateral" consists of an irregular piece of muscle and adipose tissue with two sutures for orientation marking short suture towards the tumour and long suture the lateral margin.  The specimen measures 80mm lateral to medial, 30mm superior to inferior and 10mm superficial to deep margin (margin marked towards the tumour).  The margin with the small suture is inked blue, the opposite black.  The specimen is serially sectioned from lateral to medial and AE.
Blocks:  1 - shave of lateral margin; 2 to 14 - serial sections from lateral to medial (14 has a shaved margin); 15 - shave of medial margin.
B.  Specimen labelled "Spine of scapula right" consists of several pieces of bone measuring in aggregate 30 x 20 x 5mm.  AE 1 block.
C.  Specimen labelled "Scar right shoulder stitch lateral" consists of an ellipse of skin with one suture for orientation marking the lateral margin taken as 12 o'clock.  It measures 150mm from 12 to 6 o'clock and 10mm from 3 to 9 o'clock.  An old linear scar is identified measuring 120mm in length.  The 3 o'clock margin is inked blue, the 9 o'clock margin is inked black.
Blocks:  1 - LS 12 o'clock margin; 2 - LS 6 o'clock margin; 3 & 5 - TS scar.
(SD/bl 25/3/64)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr W Grasso):
A.  The specimen has been entirely embedded and examined.  The specimen comprises fibroadipose tissue, subcutis, skeletal muscle and some fascia.  Adjacent to this short sutured margin (towards tumour) there is organising granulation tissue, fibrosis, chronic inflammation and fat necrosis consistent with previous surgery.  Within this area there are vascular changes consistent with previous radiotherapy including mural hyalinisation and intimal myxoid alteration.  Scattered within the area adjacent to the short sutured margin and within septa between skeletal muscle bundles, there are dispersed spindle and stellate cells with a generally low nuclear cytoplasmic ratio, mild nuclear atypia and some fine cytoplasmic vacuolation.  Some cells have a ganglion cell-like appearance.  These cells are favoured to represent fibroblast/myofibroblasts with mild atypia secondary to radiotherapy.  Occasional similar cells are seen withinfat lobules, however, no definite lipoblasts, significant variation in adipocyte cell size or markedly atypical stromal cells are seen.  No diagnostic evidence of residual sarcoma is seen.  
The previous excision (89F79143) was reviewed when reporting this case.  
The case was seen in consultation with Dr W Vollenweider whoconcurs.  

B.  The specimen comprises fragments of viable lamellar bone, fibroadipose tissue and skeletal muscle.  No evidence of sarcoma is seen.  
C.  The specimen has been entirely embedded and examined.  Sections show skin to subcutis.  There is  a dermal subcutaneous scar , fat necrosis and a number of suture granulomas.  No convincing evidence of residual sarcoma is seen.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Re-excision 6 o'clock margin right shoulder tumour:
-  Scar tissue.
-  Changes consistent with previous radiotherapy.
-  No diagnostic evidence of residual sarcoma (see text). 
B.  Spine of scapula, right:
-  No evidence of sarcoma.
C.  Scar right shoulder:
-  Dermal subcutaneous scar tissue.
-  No evidence of residual sarcoma.  

