Episode No:  91X133542M
919133.NLF

MARTIG, Jack Nestor 
Lab No:  91X13354
St Wilfrids
MOUNT ISA  QLD  1597
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  13/4/2020
Sex:  M
Collected: 15/01/2014at 13:48
Location:  EMERGENCY-ROYAL HOBART HOSPITAL
DR ANDRES JOESPH Triblett
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Extended right hemihepatectomy + hilar node.  
Additional information from Dr Vath:  Patient is Hep B +.  The tumour is HCC.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Hilar lymph node" consists of fragments of fatty tissue measuring 45 x 35 x 10mm in aggregate.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - each one bisected lymph node; 4 - one sliced lymph node.  
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Liverresection" consists of a specimen of right hepatectomy measuring 195 x 180 x 120mm and gallbladder (65mm inlength and up to 110mm in circumference) weighing 1,595g in total.  The common bile duct is not present.  The staples at the resection margin are removed and the margin is inked blue.  Extending from posteriorto mid right lobe there is a solid tumour measuring 105 x 75 x 75mm.  The tumour has a pale/yellow lobulatedcut surface.  The tumour abuts the capsular surface and is 1mm or less from the resection margin.  Extension of tumour into the intrahepatic bile ducts is not seen.  Approximately one third of the tumour is necrotic.  The serosal surface of the gallbladder is smooth.   The mucosal surface of the gallbladder is green and granular.  No gallstones are seen.  No tumours are seen within the gallbladder.  A cystic duct lymph node is not identified.  
Blocks: 1 - ?vascular margin; 2 to 4 - tumour and capsule of liver (block 4 - reserve block); 5 & 6 - tumour and resection margin; 7 - section of tumour; 8- necrotic tumour adjacent to and intrahepatic bile duct; 9 - liver away from tumour (special stains requested); 10 - shaved cystic duct margin; 11 - TS neck and TS body of gallbladder; 12 - LS fundus of gallbladder.   (GI/ta 18/3/64) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr Y Bethell):
A. Four lymph nodes identified show no evidence of metastatic carcinoma.
B. The solitary tumour identified macroscopically shows features of a moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. It is composed of nests and trabeculae of malignant hepatocytes with increased nuclear pleomorphism,prominent nucleoli, moderate amount of clear to eosinophilic cytoplasm and frequent mitoses. Hepatocellular carcinoma abuts the liver capsule focally but capsular perforation is not seen. Carcinoma is 0.5mm from the closest surgical resection margin. No obvious lymphovascular invasion is identified. Special stains (Reticulin and Perl's iron) reveal markedly thickened liver cell plates and absence of iron deposition within the tumour. On immunohistochemistry, the tumour shows positive staining with Hepar-1 and AFP, and negative staining with CK7 and CK20. Polyclonal CEA shows a canalicular staining pattern while CD34 highlights the endothelial-lined trabeculae of the tumour.
The uninvolved liver parenchyma shows preservation of normal lobular architecture. There is a mild lymphocytic infiltrate within the portal tracts but no significant interphase or lobular inflammation is noted. There is a mild expansion of the portal tracts without septa formation. The METAVIR activity and fibrosis scores are A0 and F1 respectively. The orcein special stain and Hepatitis B surface antigen immunostain are positive, in keeping with the clinical history. No furthersignificant pathology is noted with the remaining special stains (PAS, PAS/D, Masson, reticulin, Perl's iron and rhodanine). There is no evidence of cirrhosis.
Sections of the gall bladder show mild wall thickening associated with mild chronic inflammation.  Mild Rokitansky Aschoff sinus formation is present.  The appearance is consistent with mild chronic cholecystitis.  There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Hilar lymph node(s)
- NO EVIDENCE OF METASTATIC CARCINOMA IN FOUR LYMPH NODES (0/4)
B. Right hemihepatectomy plus cholecystectomy
- HEPATOCELLULAR CARCINOMA, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED
- SIZE 105MM, MARGINS APPEAR CLEAR
- CHRONIC CHOLECYSTITIS, MILD

