Episode No:  10K990029Z
104990.BHY

Paone, Kendall 
Lab No:  10K99002
Sunny Hills
NEW NORFOLK  VIC  3399
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  5/1/1994
Sex:  M
Collected: 24/10/2012 at 16:43
Location:  L7 CONSULTING ROOMS-BIGGENDEN MULTIPURPOSE HEALTH SERVICE
DR Edgardo ISAIAH JASMIN
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
		**SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ADDED**

CLINICAL:
Extended Lt hemihepatectomy ?HCC.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left lobe liver resection" consists of left lobe of liver measuring 190 x 115 x 55mm weighing 427.7g.  There is a piece of the falciform ligament attached. There is a nodule on the surface of the liver measuring 40mm in maximal diameter, protruding anteromedially.  The rest of the capsular surface is unremarkable.  The bare area is inked blue and the surgical margin is inked green.  On the cut surface there is a haemorrhagic well circumscribed tumour measuring 35mm (superior-inferior) x 35mm (medial-lateral) x 25mm (superficial-deep).  The tumour is located 24mm from the nearest surgical margin and is well clear of the bare area.  The rest of thecut section of the liver is unremarkable with no focal mass lesions.  
Blocks:  1 - perihilar vascular surgical margin representative section; 2 to 6 - representative tumour; 7 - closest margin; 8 - normal liver section; 9 - one bisected lymph node; 10 - reserve block.   (OA/cc 27/12/62) 
B.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of one intact gallbladder measuring 50mm (length) x up to 35mm (width).  The serosal surface is shiny and unremarkable.  The open gallbladder contains viscus bile and one small irregular yellow/tan stone measuring 2mm. The mucosal surface is velvety and unremarkable.  The gallbladder wall measures 2mm in thickness.  One small cystic duct lymph node is present.  
Bocks:  1 -surgical margin TS gallbladder neck TS and one bisected cystic duct lymph node; 2 - two TS body; 3 - two LS fundus.  (BN/mm 27.12.62) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr D Steier): 
A.  Sections show a well circumscribed solitary hepatocellular tumour.  The tumour comprises of benign appearing hepatocytes arranged in solid sheets without acinar architecture.  The tumour cells are largerand paler than non-tumour hepatocytes in the surrounding tissue.  No central scars or large arteries are seen.  Focal areas of haemorrhage are present but no necrosis is seen.  Focal areas of fibrosis and septum formation are present.  The tumour is completely excised and is well clear of the resection margin.  
The tumour shows a well developed reticulum network (which is confirmed by reticulum stain).  The tumour cells are strongly positive for Hepar-1.  TheKi-67 proliferation index is about 2 to 3%.  CD34 is strongly expressed within the tumour.  The surrounding liver tissue shows macro-steatosis.  There is no significant inflammation.  There is no evidence of architectural change or cirrhosis. 
Comment:
Sections show a solitary hepatocellular tumour (35mm), which is difficult to classify.  The overall appearances are favouring those of well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma.  The main differentialdiagnosis is hepatocellular adenoma.  Hepatocellular carcinoma usually arises in the background of cirrhosis but no cirrhosis is seen here.  Hepatocellular adenoma is strongly linked to female contraceptive pills/steroids and male cases without linkage to contraceptive pills/steroids are extremely rare.  This case will be sent to Prof Gerald SPANICEK of PROSERPINE HOSPITAL Hospital and a supplementary report will be issued.
B.  Sections of gallbladder show features of chronic inflammation.  The cystic duct lymph node shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left lobe liverresection - Hepatocellular tumour favouring well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma (see text).
B.  Gallbladder - Chronic cholecystitis.  Cholelithiasis.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (28/1/2062):
Reported by Prof Stefan OTANO, WEE WAA COMMUNITY HOSPITAL Hospital.
I favour a diagnosis of well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma, rather than an adenoma, since the lesion has areas with thick trabeculae (>3 cells), focal loss of reticulin fibres, unaccompanied arteries and stromal invasion.  Focally there are a few pseudo glandular structures (dilated bile canaliculi).  Scattered mitotic figures arealso seen.  No vascular invasion is identified.
SUMMARY
Review liver, left lobe: Well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. 

