Episode No:  89B648059A
8906480.OZA

BEAVIN, EFFIE Hyman 
Lab No:  89B64805
Moon Hall
ALICE SPRINGS  Queensland  4106
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  24/2/1982
Sex:  M
Collected: 09/11/2012 at 11:13
Location:  DHM-UPPER MURRAY HEALTH AND COMMUNITY SERVICES
DR MAUD Danny Demiter
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Hx of intermittent obstructive symptoms with CT demonstrated calcified mass at small bowel mesentery.  Intraop cicatrising lesion small bowel mesentery + omental nodule.  ?Carcinoid.  TIA's, Rheumatic heart disease.  DM, HTN, Deafness, Gout, Obesity.   
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel" consists of a segment of intact stapled small bowel measuring 535mm in length, 25 to 35mm in diameter with attached mesentery up to 90mm in width and 33mm in thickness.   There are two areas of stricture showing serosal puckering.  The larger area is 170mm from one resection margin and the smaller area is 185mm from the resection margin respectively.  The serosa towards one side of the stricture appears dull and congested with slight dilatation (assumed as proximal part of the specimen).  Macroscopically there is no evidence of perforation.  There are fourteen submucosal tumours ranging from 1mm to 25mm in greatest dimension.  The larger tumours appear to involve submucosa and muscularis propria with atrophic and attenuated overlying mucosa.  The cut surface of all tumours appears solid and yellowish.  The tumours are at least 80mm from the cut ends.  The mesentery appears nodular at the mid aspect which on sectioning corresponds to three enlarged lymph nodes almost entirely replaced by tumour measuring from 10 to 33mm in greatest dimension.  The nodes abut the radial soft tissue margin (inked blue).  
Blocks: 1 - cut end (presumably proximal); 2 - opposite end; 3 to 5 - tumours; 6 & 7 - the largest tumour with deepest invasion; 8 - two adjacent tumours closest to cut end; 9 - reserve block; 10 to 12 - each four nodes; 13 to 15 - the largest involved node with margin.   (JQ/Ta 14/1/62) 
B.  Specimen labelled "Omental nodule" consists ofa piece of fatty tissue 25 x 20 x 10mm containing a 2mm greyish nodule. AE 2 blocks (nodule in block 1).
(TO: LZ; FF/ec  14.1.62) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof V Miley): 
A. The sections of small bowel show multiple carcinoid tumours which extend through the full thickness of the bowel wall to the serosal surface.
Vascular invasion is present as well as focal perineural invasion.
The tumour cells show mild to moderate nuclear pleomorphism aswell as scattered mitoses. The mitotic rate is approximately 1 per 10 hpf.
No necrosis is seen. 
 Gland formation, consistent with adenocarcinoid subtype, is present in some of the tumours. 
The tumour cells show positive staining with CD56 and Chromogranin. Synaptophysin is focally positive.
According to WHO grading, the degree of nuclear pleomorphism, organoid architecture, low mitotic rate, absence of necrosis and positive neuroendocrine marker expression would be consistent with low grade tumours. 
The largest tumour is 25mm in max diameter (macroscopic). 
The sections taken from the ends of the specimen appear clear of the tumours.
Multiple lymph node metastases are present, including a large node showing total replacement by carcinoid tumour with extranodal spreadwhich extends to the surface of the specimen (A13 and A14). Vascular invasion is noted in veins within the adjacent mesentery. A total of 14 out of 16 nodes are involved.
B. The omental nodules consist of organising fibroustissue.
No evidence of tumour is seen.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. SMALL BOWEL: MULTIPLE CARCINOID TUMOURS WITH LYMPH NODE METASTASES.
B. OMENTUM: ORGANISING FIBROUS TISSUE.
 


