SPR no: 78D914204M
MRN no: 78191420
Site_name: ALBANY HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
L thigh lesion leiomyosarcoma excision.  Ca pancreas.
[Specimen received fresh and discussed with Dr T Klyn.  Fresh tissue for cytogenetics not required.  Formalin added, by Dr T Berkheimer (AP Reg) 14/9/2065].
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled &amp;quot;L thigh leiomyosarcoma - double stitch deep femoral vein, long stitch deep lateral, short stitch 12 o&amp;apos;clock&amp;quot;, consists of an oriented excision of soft tissue including skeletal muscle and overlying skin with three sutures denoting 12 o&amp;apos;clock, left lateral and deep femoral vein.  It is 100mm from superficial to deep, 64mm medial to lateral and 90mm from 12 o&amp;apos;clock to 6 o&amp;apos;clock (presumed superior to inferior).  The overlying skin is 90mm x 14mm and bears no focal lesions or scars.  The groove for the deep femoral vein is on the 9 o&amp;apos;clock aspect and is inked green, the 3 o&amp;apos;clock half of the margin is inked blue and the 9 o&amp;apos;clock half is inked black.  The suture indicating deep lateral lies on the 3 o&amp;apos;clock side.  Eight horizontal slices from 12 o&amp;apos;clock towards 6 o&amp;apos;clock show a 50 x 39 x 34mm circumscribed and firm lesion at the deep aspect of the specimen which has a pale cut surface with a central area of cystic degeneration and yellow softening and peripheral areas of red and brown discolouration (? haemorrhage).  The central softened areas (?necrosis) form approximately 40% of the cut surface.  The lesion abuts the deep aspect, the deep 3 o&amp;apos;clock (lateral) aspect and the (green inked) femoral vein groove, where there is a lumen consistent with vessel up to 4mm in diameter that appears surrounded by the lesion in some areas.  Perpendicular sections of the 12 o&amp;apos;clock end (slice 1) show the lesion is 5mm from the 12 o&amp;apos;clock soft tissue margin.  The lesion is well clear (more than 30mm) of the 6 o&amp;apos;clock soft tissue margin.  It is 50mm from the skin surface.
Blocks: 1 - longitudinal section of 12 o&amp;apos;clock soft tissue margin; 2 to 5 - lesion from slice two, quadrisected (section in block 5 has fragmented); 6 to 11 - all of slice three in six sections (6 &amp;amp; 7 - skin and subcutis, 8 to 11 - the lesion quadrisected); 12 - longitudinal section of 6 o&amp;apos;clock soft tissue margin.  [Block diagram photo taken]
(TO: SW; SW/eh 16.9.68)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof T Dews and Dr T Cordoba, Registrar):
Sections show, at the deep aspect of the specimen, a malignant spindle cell lesion with a relatively circumscribed but unencapsulated border, surrounded by fat and skeletal muscle. Tumour cells focally infiltrate into fibrous tissue between skeletal muscle bundles, particularly in the area of the femoral groove.  There is a central area of hyalinisation and necrosis (estimated to be approximately 40% of the tumour) and a peripheral zone of viable tumour that is composed of foci of small atypical spindle cells arranged in ill-formed fascicles with hyperchromatic and pleomorphic nuclei and medium sized nucleoli as well as prominent areas with markedly enlarged and bizarre cells with karyomegaly, smudged chromatin, multinucleation and prominent nucleoli.  These areas are associated with vascular proliferation, red cell extravasation and a mild lymphocytic infiltrate and would be consistent with treatment effect.  In the histologically viable areas there are up to 3 mitoses per 10 high power fields (block 4).  No lymphovascular or perineural invasion is seen, though entrapped nerves are identified in the tumour mass.
The tumour is 0.2 mm from the deep aspect over several areas (blocks 5, lateral aspect and 9, central deep) and 0.2 mm from the femoral vein groove (blocks 2 and 8).  A muscular artery near the vein groove is surrounded, but not invaded, by tumour.  This area is 4.5 mm from the 12 o&amp;#8217;clock soft tissue margin and well clear of remaining margins.  The overlying skin is normal.
Immunohistochemistry shows the tumour cells are positive for smooth muscle actin and desmin and negative for cytokeratins (AE1/AE3 and Cam 5.2).  This profile supports the morphological diagnosis of leiomyosarcoma.
Dr T Alleruzzo has also seen representative sections of residual tumour.
DIAGNOSIS:
Left thigh: Residual leiomyosarcoma with superimposed treatment-related changes.
