 927062.DVI
MASTRANGELO, RHETT BOBBIE
92T06218

Last edited : 29/10/2062		Page: 2

***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (29.10.2062): MICROSATELLITE MARKERS

CLINICAL:
Ultralow anterior resection.  Anterior rectal tumour 6cm from anal verge.  T2 N0 on MRI.  L TKR last year, had MRSAinfection in the joint after operation.  Has a small lump and discharge in the scar of the wound now. Swab taken from the lump, which is in the lower part of the wound scar.  HTN. High chol. Wegener's granulomatosis. Rectal ca.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.Specimen labelled "Ultralow anterior resection", consists of a segment of sigmoid colon in continuity with proximal rectum, 280mm in length with an external diameter of up to 60mm. The anterior peritoneal reflection is identified and it is 50mm from the distal resection margin. The proximal margin is inked blue, rectal circumferential margin green and distal margin black. Situated on the left lateral wall of the rectal mucosa, 10mm below the anterior peritoneal reflection and 10mm from the distal resection margin, there is a fungating tan tumour measuring 30 x 25mm. The cut surface of the tumour shows full thickness bowel wall involvement but there is no macroscopic evidence of invasion into the perirectal fat.  The tumour is 10mm from the closest circumferentialresection margin. Multiple sessile polyps are identified throughout the mucosa of the specimen measuring from 2-4mm across.  Lymph nodes are identified measuring from 2-6mm across.
Representative sections in 25 blocks. 
Blocks: 1 - proximal resection margin; 2-4 - distal resection margin; 5-12 - tumour (5 & 6, 7-9, 10-12 - full faces, 11 - research block); 13 - apical lymph node; 14 - next apical lymph node; 15-21 - lymph nodes from distal to proximal (15 - two possible lymph nodes; 16-21 - three possible lymph nodes in each); 22-25 - sessile polyps as seen.
B.  Specimen labelled "Distal donut", consists of a mucosal donut with embedded staples measuring 25 x 17 x 5mm.  The staples are removed and the specimen is AE in 1 block.  (NLc/ec  24.10.62) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr Y Zalesky) 
A.  The rectal carcinoma is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. A synoptic report for rectal carcinoma follows:

SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR RECTAL CARCINOMA
Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour: Rectum.	
Maximum tumour diameter: 30mm (macroscopic).
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 5.5mm (distal margin).
Tumour perforation: No.
Relation of tumour to anterior peritonealreflection: Below.
Microscopic Description
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved.
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not involved.
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin: 5.5mm.
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Nineteen.
Number of lymph nodes involved: None (0/19).
The apical lymph node contains a single very small epithelioid granuloma. No pathogenic organisms are seen with special stains. The granuloma is not present on deeper levels and is of uncertain clinical significance. 
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Not identified.
Perineural invasion
Not identified.
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pM0	No distant metastasis
Background abnormalities/other comments

Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Not applicable.
Microsatellite Markers
Pending.
Pathological Stage (TNM 7th edition 2010): STAGE IIA (pT3N0MxR0)	
B.  Sections of the bowel wall donuts show a hyperplastic polyp. There is no evidence ofmalignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Ultralow anterior resection: 
30mm moderately differentiated, pTNM Stage IIA, rectal adenocarcinoma (below the peritoneal reflection), clear of surgical margins.
No evidence of malignancy in nineteen sampled lymph nodes (0/19).
Isolated very small granuloma (in the apical lymph node), of uncertain clinical significance (no pathogenic organisms identified). 

B.  Bowel wall donuts: Hyperplastic polyp. No evidence of malignancy.

Markers of microsatellite instability are being performed and a supplementary report will be issued. 


***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (29.10.2062): MICROSATELLITE MARKERS
Dr Y Vanhise
MLH1	Preserved nuclear staining

