
Episode No:  59B367564K
5903675.RLK

Neiling, JAMAAL 
Lab No:  59B36756
Lymerston
GRENFELL  Australian Capital Territory  4360
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  2/11/2011
Sex:  F
Collected: 17/07/2064 at 08:33
Location:  Molecular Oncology Unit-KOOWEERUP REGIONAL HEALTH SERVICE
DR RENATO Teodoro Dettorre
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
2 months of progressive decreasing visual acuity.  18 months hypocortisolaemia   Suprasellar lesion.  Pituitary tumour.  Suprasellar lesion.  Craniotomy.  Suprasellar tumour causing progressive deterioration in vision.  Pituitary tumour.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Suprasellar tumour", consists of a piece of softhaemorrhagic tissue 17 x 3 x 3mm.  One smear made for H & E staining and half of specimen embedded for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section; 2 - remainder of tissue.  AE.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Craniopharyngioma. 
Phone results to Dr ALEXANDER BREADY by Dr Bert Druetta and Dr WINSTON Broadway at 12:54pm on 17/07/64.
B.  Specimen labelled "Suprasellar lesion", consists of three piece of irregular cream/tan and partly haemorrhagic tissue 5 to 20mm.  The larger piece BAE 2blocks. (TO: LK;SB/vo 18.7.64) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr P Fairley):
A, B.  Sections show pieces of tumour tissue and a small amount of adjacent gliotic brain tissue.  The tumour consists of lobules and ribbons of stratified squamous epithelium which focallyincludes a few mucin containing goblet cells.  The squamous epithelium sits on a loose fibrous stroma.  Within the sheets and lobules of epithelium there are loose reticular areas consistent with stellate reticulum.  Some palisading isseen at the base of the epithelium but this is not particularly prominent.  There is focal calcification.  Some pieces of tumour have a somewhat papillary architecture.  There is no necrosis and there is no cytologic atypia or evidence ofmalignancy.  There is a moderate, patchy infiltrate of mixed chronic inflammatory cells in part of the stroma.  The appearances are of a craniopharyngioma.  
Immunostains:
Beta-Catenin:   Positive cytoplasmic staining oftumour cells.  No nuclear staining.  
Cytokeratin CAM 5.2:   Epithelium stains positive.
Ki-67:  Many epithelial basal cells positive.  Very few positive cells elsewhere.  
I favour this to be an adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma rather than a papillary craniopharyngioma.  This is mainly due to the presence of definite stellate reticulum in the tumour.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A, B.  Suprasellar tumour:  Craniopharyngioma (WHO grade I).

