
Episode No:  18R970906Q
186970.YAR

Barnick, Arlyne 
Lab No:  18R97090
Chadwick Hall
PARRAMATTA    2148
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  10/1/1994
Sex:  F
Collected: 17/08/2064 at 15:05
Location:  SEALS-LIVERPOOL HOSPITAL
DR KELLY TYREE HOLDERBY
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
Extended Lt hemi hepatectomy with bile duct.  ?Cholangiocarcinoma.   
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left liver + bile duct + gallbladder" consists of a hemi hepatectomy with attached biliarysystem including common hepatic duct, cystic duct and short section of common bile duct with attached gallbladder.  The liver measures 150 x 95 x 50mm.  The common hepatic duct extends from the liver for 30mm.There is a length of cystic duct attached to the gallbladder which joins the common hepatic duct.  The cystic duct measures 35mm in length.  At the confluence of these two ductsthere is a further area measuring 8mm in length representing the common bile duct.  The entire biliary system appears to have slightly thickened wall throughout.  No definite mass lesion is identified.  The liver appears to have a mildly dilated bile duct near the porta hepatis.  No mass lesions are identified in the liver.  The liver parenchyma appears unremarkable.  One periporta hepatis node is identified measuring 8mm in maximum dimension.  The attached gallbladder measures 130mm in length with a maximum external diameter of 50mm.  The serosa appears unremarkable.  The maximum thickness ofthe wall is 2mm.  The mucosa of the gallbladder appears unremarkable.  No gallstones are identified.  
Blocks: 1 - commonbile duct resection margin; 2 - further section of common bile duct; 3 - representative sections of proximal cystic duct; 4 - confluence of hepatic duct and cysticduct; 5 - common hepatic duct; 6 & 7 - LS of common hepatic duct into liver; 8 - further section of bile duct in liver; 9 - periporta hepatis lymph node; 10 & 11 - representative liver; 12 - gallbladder body; 13 - gallbladder fundus.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of two pieces of fatty omental tissue measuring 370mm and 120mm in maximum dimension.  No suspicious areas are identified.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Hilar lymph node" consists of pieces of tan and fatty tissue from 12 to 60mm in maximum dimension.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified measuring from 8 to 38mm.  
Blocks: 1 - lymph nodes; 2 - one lymph node bisected; 3 to 5 - one lymph node seriallysectioned.  (XS/ta 18/8/64) 
   
MICROSCOPIC (Reported byDr E Mahoney): 
A.  The common hepatic duct has been serially sectioned, with sections extending into the liver to include the duct.  The lining epithelium of most of the duct is severely dysplastic, interpreted as BilIN-3 (biliary intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3).  The changes of severe dysplasia extend to the proximal excision margin of the duct and also extend into major branches of the common hepatic duct.  There is also periductal fibrosis with an associated moderate and heavy, patchy infiltrate of mixed chronic inflammatory cells.  The dysplastic epithelium extends into some peri-ductal glands but no invasive carcinoma is identified.  The BilIN-3 is very likely to also extend into major ducts to the remaining right lobe of the liver.  
Major bile duct branches within the liver parenchyma also show dysplastic changes including BilIN-3 and BilIN-2.  
Sections of liver away from the porta hepatis show fibrous expansion of portal tracts and bridging fibrosis between portal tracts.  There is no cirrhosis.  The Metavir fibrosis score is F3 (out of 4).  There is bile ductular proliferation in expanded portal tracts and there is a moderate infiltrate of mixed chronic inflammatory cells inthe expanded portal tracts and the fibrous bands.  The inflammatory infiltrate consists mainly of lymphocytes but there are also a few scattered plasma cells, neutrophils and eosinophils.  There are also foci of piecemeal necrosis.  The Metavir activity score is A1 (out of 3).  There is mild, patchy chronic inflammation in the liver lobules.  Central veins are normal.  These changes in the liver are interpreted as secondaryto chronic large bile duct obstruction.  There are also few,scattered non-necrotising granulomata in the liver parenchyma; these do not appear to be located around bile ducts or portaltracts.  
A rhodanine stain for copper shows focal copper staining of hepatocytes around fibrous bands and expanded portal tract; this is non-specific.  There is no increase in stainable iron in the liver, no Alpha 1 antitrypsin globules are seen and an Orcein stain for hepatitis B surface antigen is negative.  
One lymph node was identified at the porta hepatis and this shows extensive involvement by small, sarcoid-like non-necrotising granulomata.  No fungi or acid fast bacilli are identified with PAS or Fite stains.  The appearance of the lymph node suggests co-existing sarcoidosis.
Sections of the gallbladder show moderate, chronic mucosal inflammation but the appearances are otherwise unremarkable.  
B.  Sections show unremarkable fat.  No abnormality is seen  
C.  Sections of seven lymph nodes show extensive involvement by multiple small, discrete, sarcoid-like granulomata.  The features suggest sarcoidosis.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left liver, bile duct and gallbladder:
-  Severe dysplasia (BilIN-3) involving common hepatic duct and other major bile ducts.  No invasive carcinoma seen.  See text.
-  Bridging fibrosis and chronic inflammation in liver, interpreted as secondary to chronic large bile duct obstruction.
-  Non-necrotising granulomata in porta hepatis lymph node and in liver parenchyma,   ? co-existing sarcoidosis.  
B.  Omentum:  No abnormality seen. 
C.  Hilar lymph nodes:  Granulomatous inflammation, ? sarcoidosis.  

