Episode No:  52X837699M
5298376.XZM

Colantuono, Daron 
Lab No:  52X83769
Harrell
MUDGEE  ACT  3058
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  27/4/2008
Sex:  M
Collected: 19/04/2065 at 15:30
Location:  SWAPS-BOWRAL HOSPITAL
PRO Lael HIRAM Zmolek
Distribution:     FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
Appendix adeno neuroendocrine cancer.  Peritonectomy.
Peritoneum, gallbladder, spleen, colon/rectum, small intestine.  Ki67.
MACROSCOPIC:  
"GALLBLADDER, SPLEEN, SMALL BOWEL, OMENTUM, COLON, RECTUM, PERITONEAL DISEASE ICU".  Two pieces of small bowel.  The larger piece contains multiple adhesions. The larger piece approximately 710mm in length and up to 22mm in diameter. There is attached mesentery again with multiple adhesions.  Mesentery measures up to 160mm.  There is anill defined indurated area on the external surface of the small bowel 15mm. This area is 85mm from one of the resection margins.  The smaller piece of small bowel measures 100mm in length and up to 25mm in diameter.  No tumour is identified on the segment.  There is a possible piece of stomach 45x45x20mm.  No identifiable tumour.  There is another small piece of unidentified bowel 20x15x15mm.  No tumour is identified within this piece.  This piece may represent smallbowel.  Two pieces of large bowel including rectum are identified.  The larger piece of large bowel with rectum measures 190mm in length and up to 5mm in diameter.  Attached to this piece of large bowel is some fibrofatty tissue with avein and a piece of skin possible umbilicus or stoma. The fibrofatty piece with vein measures 200mm in length. The skin measures 35x25mm.  Tumour is identified on the external surface of the large bowel up to 25mm.  No tumour identified. The smaller piece of large bowel measures 45mm in length and up to 30mm in diameter.  No tumour is identified. The spleen 110x80x45mm. There is attached omentum to the spleen measuring up to 440mm. At the hilum of the spleen there is a firm nodule up to 15mm. The spleen weighs 166g.  There are multiple firm nodules within the omentum ranging from 5 up to 15mm. The gallbladder is unopened and measures 65mm in length and up to 25mm in diameter.  The external surface is grey and smooth.  The gallbladder was filled with bile.  No stones were identified. The wall measures up to 2mm thick.  No tumour was identified within the gallbladder.  There are multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue ranging from 20 up to190mm.  No definite tumour is identified within these pieces.  
(1-5 from the larger piece of the small bowel [1&2 resection margins, 3-5 sections through tumour]; 6-8 from the smaller piece of small bowel [6&7 resection margins, 8 normal appearing bowel]; 9-11 from the possible stomach [9&10 resection margins, 11 section through the normal appearing wall]; 12 possible small bowel section normal appearing; 13-16 large segment of large bowel [13&14 resectionmargin, 15&16 through tumour]; 17 through the fibrofatty piece of tissue and vein connecting the large bowel and skin; 18 section from the skin; 19&20 smaller piece of large bowel [19 resection margin, 20 section through normal appearing bowel]; 21 spleen with nodule; 22 omentum with nodule; 23 RS through the gallbladder including cyst duct, body and fundus; 24&25 RS through the fibrofatty tissue).  RS (M-25/UI/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:  (O Kalisch)
The sections of the larger piece of small bowel show serosal adhesion and with nests of tumour cells present within the serosa/adventitia and also infiltrating within the muscularis propria and submucosa and with overlying surface erosion. The nests of tumour consist of cells with gobletcell morphology and other smaller nests with a small acinar/tubular architecture with eosinophilic cytoplasm and irregular somewhat hyperchromatic nuclei with small nucleoli. Some sheets of cells with higher grade nucelar cytology are seen in association with extracellular mucin pools. The surgical resection margins are free of tumour. 
Sections of the smaller piece of bowel are unremarkable apart from the presence of serosal adhesions. 
Sections of the segment of stomach show mild chronic inflammation, focal intestinal metaplasia of the mucosa and with serosal acute inflammatory reaction.
Sections of the next described piece of small bowel show serosal acute inflammatory reaction and focal serosal tumour deposit. 
Sections of the large segment of large bowel demonstrate serosal adhesions and adventitial fibrosis associated with tumour deposits includingextracellular mucin with signet ring cells. There is also involvement of one of the surgical resection margins by tumour on the serosa and also within the muscularis propria and within the submucosallymphatics. Adherent vas deferens is seen on the serosal/adventitial surface of the large bowel. The external layers of the vas are also infiltrated by tumour. 
Section of the portion of skin demonstrate a small nest of tumour in subcutaneous tissue associated with fibroblastic reaction and birefringent foreign material. 
Sections of the smaller piece of large bowel demonstrate serosal adhesions including serosal tumour deposits. The surgical resection margins are unremarkable. 
Sections of the spleen and splenic hilum demonstrate normal appearing splenic parenchyma and with adjacent pancreatic tissue. 
Section of the omentum shows fibrosis, fat necrosis, and deposits of tumour. 
Sections of the gallbladder show moderate chronic inflammation. 
Sections of the separate pieces of fibrofatty tissue/peritoneum show serosal deposits oftumour. 
Immunohistochemistry (Block 3): There is positive staining for CAM5.2, CK20, CDX-2, Synaptophysin, and chromogranin. CK20 is negative.
COMMENT:
The histologic appearance is consistent with the given history of mixed adeno-neuroendocrine carcinoma. 
DIAGNOSIS:  
PERITONECTOMY SPECIMEN: MIXED ADENO-NEUROENDOCRINE CARCINOMA - SEE TEXT FOR DETAILS.
26.4.2065

