Episode No:  58X238684Q
5892386.XMQ

Mosbarger, TAYLOR 
Lab No:  58X23868
Serrano
BACCHUS MARSH  Western Australia  2115
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  24/5/2009
Sex:  F
Collected: 12/12/2064 at 09:58
Location:  EAST SURGICAL-CALVARY HEALTH CARE BETHLEHEM
DR SAUL Teresa BETSCHMAN
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Large left retroperitoneal tumour.  ?Liposarcoma.  Resection with left kidney.  Tie on ureter.  Left adrenal sent as separate specimen.
Further clinical history provided by Dr Ersery on 16/12/64: Patient recently investigated for haematological malignancy - thought to be CLL. 

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left retroperitoneal tumour" consists of a large piece of fatty tissue measuring 135mm (medial to lateral) x 240mm (inferior to superior) x 190mm (superficial to deep).  The ureter is identified with a suture which is presumed inferior.  The deep/posterior margin has a predominately smooth surface.At the superior margin there is a portion of adrenal gland, this area appears roughened.  Parts of the medial margin appear smooth while other areas appear more roughened.  The inferior aspect and the superficial/anterior aspect appear roughened. The deep margin is inked black, the medial superficial aspect is inked blue while the lateral aspect is inked red.  The cut surface reveals fatty tissue which is encasing a kidney.  The majority of the fatty tissue appears lobulated and glistening.  Other areas near the superficial and inferior aspect have more normal appearing fatty tissue.  No definite areas of dedifferentiation are identified.  The kidney measures 100 x 55 x 50mm.  Glistening fatty tissue appears to involve the renal hilum and encase the posterior lateral aspects of the kidney while the superficial and inferior aspects are covered by more normal appearing fatty tissue.  The ureter runs for a length of 90mm.  The ureter has a normal calibre along its length.  The calyceal system in the kidney appears dilated to a maximum diameter of 22mm.  There is a large staghorn calculus measuring 25mm in maximum dimension embedded into the calyceal system in the superioraspect of the kidney.  The tumour appears to come close to the superior margin, the deep margin and the medial margin.  The tumour is 5mm away from the inferior margin and possibly clear of the lateral and superficial margins.  
Blocks: 1 - ureter resection margin; 2 & 3 - superior aspect of specimen including adrenal gland to area where stoneis embedded; 4 & 5 - further superior margin; 6 to 8 - deep margin; 9 to 11 - medial margin; 12 to 14 - inferior margin; 15 to 17 - superficial margin; 18 to 20 - lateral margin; 21 to 23 - fatty tissue within renal hilum; 24 - kidney to lateral aspect; 25 - tumour surrounding ureter.
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Left adrenal gland superior margin" consists of a fatty piece of tissue including adrenal gland measuring 50 x 30 x 20mm and weighing 8.7g.  The cut surface reveals fatty tissue with an unremarkable adrenal gland.  Representative sections in 4 blocks.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Omental/superior margin" consists of a fatty piece of tissue measuring 180 x 95 x 35mm.  Approximately 75% of the tissue is lined by a peritoneal surface.  The cut surface reveals fatty tissue which in areas is has a slightly glistening appearance.  Representative sections 5 blocks.  
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Posterior aortic margin" consists of a piece of fatty tissue measuring 22 x 12 x 10mm.  The cut surface reveals a possible lymph node taking up the majority of the tissue.  Serially sectioned AE 1 block.  
 
E.  Specimen labelled "Left lateral margin" consists of a piece of fatty tissue measuring 65 x 50 x 20mm.  Approximately 80% of the tissue is surrounded by a smooth peritoneal surface.  The cut surface reveals fatty tissue which appears glistening inplaces which comes close to the roughened margin.  Representative sections in 4 blocks.  (RO/ta 12/12/64) 
 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr N Taula & registrar Dr N Gorham):
A.  Sections show a well differentiated liposarcoma.  The liposarcoma consists of lipoma-like, sclerosing and inflammatory subtypes.  The lipoma-like areas consists of lobules of variable sized adipocytes, numerous lipoblasts and scattered atypical pleomorphic adipocytes. The sclerosing areas consist of sclerotic bands of fibrous tissue containing pleomorphic, hyperchromatic stromal cells.  The inflammatory areas consist of a dense chronic inflammatory infiltrate superimposed on sclerosing and occasionally lipoma-like areas.  There is focal myxoid change within the liposarcoma with occasional large atypical multinucleated cells however, there is no definite evidence of pleomorphic liposarcoma.  The liposarcoma envelops but not invade the left adrenal gland, left kidney or ureter.  Mitoses, including atypical forms, are present up to 3 mitoses per 10hpf.  No necrosis or areas of dedifferentiation are identified. 
FNCLCC grading
Tumour differentiation: 1
Mitosis: 1 (0-9 mitosis per 10 hpf)
Tumour necrosis: 0
Histological grade 1 (total score 2 - 3)
Liposarcoma extends to the superior, deep, medial, superficial and lateral margins and is 2.5mm from the inferior margin. 
Sections of the left adrenal gland and ureter show no significant abnormality. 
Sections of the leftkidney show focal aggregates of chronic inflammatory cells within the interstitium, possibly representing involvement by CLL (see specimen D).
B.  Sections show well differentiated liposarcoma similar to that seen in specimen A which surrounds the left adrenal gland.  The adrenal gland shows no significant abnormality.  The liposarcoma extends to the surgical margin. 
C.  Sections show well differentiated liposarcoma similar to that seen in specimen A. The liposarcoma extends to the surgical margin.
D.  Sections show a lymph node with almost complete effacement of normal architecture by a nodular proliferation of mature lymphocytes which have slightly irregular nuclear borders and clumped chromatin.  The subcapsular sinuses are closed and filled with lymphocytes and there is extranodal spread into the surrounding fatty tissue.  
The small atypical lymphocytes stain positive for CD5, CD20, CD21, CD23 and BCL2 and negative for CD3 (staining background T cells), CD10 and cyclinD1. The Ki67 index is variable throughout the lymph node and is focally positive in some areas in approximately 20% of cells. The increased staining in these areas is presumed to represent proliferation centres.  
The morphological appearance and immunohistochemical profile are consistent with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL).  There is no large cell transformation.
No definite liposarcoma is identified in the surrounding fattissue.  
E.  Sections show well differentiated liposarcoma similar to that seen in specimen A. The liposarcoma extends to the surgical margin.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left retroperitoneal tumour:
 - Well differentiated liposarcoma (lipoma-like, sclerosing and inflammatory subtypes)
 - FNCLCC Grade 1
 - No areas of dedifferentiation
 - Margins positive(see text)
B.  Left adrenal gland - superior margin:
 - Well differentiated liposarcoma 
 - Margins positive
C.  Omental superior margin:
 -  Well differentiated liposarcoma 
 -  Margins positive
D.  Posterior aortic margin:
 -  Lymph node with features of CLL
 -  No definite liposarcoma
E.  Left lateral margin:
 -  Well differentiated liposarcoma 
 -  Margins positive

