Episode No:  86A313770N
8603137.TBN

Marello, Norbert KELVIN 
Lab No:  86A31377
Alelanto
BEAUDESERT  SA  3736
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  1/5/2033
Sex:  F
Collected: 10/10/2064 at 13:59
Location:  EAST SURGICAL-PORT BROUGHTON DISTRICT HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SERVICES
DR DOMINIQUE CLEMENTE Rudge
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Colorectal carcinoma with liver metastasis.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Falciform ligament", consists of a piece of fatty tissue with peritoneum attached to one side measuring 75 x 50 x 18mm. Two firm cream nodules are identified on the side opposite the peritoneal surface measuring 10 and 12mm in maximum dimension.  Representative sections in 2 blocks.
B.  Specimen labelled "Hilar lymph node", consists of a piece of tan and haemorrhagic tissue 50 x 25 x 20mm in maximum dimension.  The entire specimen appears to be one lymph node.  Representative sections in 2 blocks. B3 -B4 Residual lymph node AE.
C.  Specimen labelled "Segment 3 on 4b ghost lesion", consists of a segment of liver with attached fatty tissue measuring 45 x 25 x 15mm.  There is a piece of fatty tissue attached to the capsular surface.  There is a possible cream nodule measuring 5mm within the fatty tissue attached to the capsular surface. The remainder of the liver surface appears unremarkable.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.  Blocks 4-6 Residual AE. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Segment 4a/8", consists of a segment of liver measuring 50 x 40 x 25mm.  A firm creamand partially necrotic tumour measuring 20mm in maximum dimension is identified. The tumour is 4mm from the resection margin and abuts the capsular surface.  Representative sections in 2 blocks. 
E.  Specimen labelled "Segment 4b", consists of an irregular section of liver measuring 65 x 45 x 30mm. The cut surface reveals a firm cream necrotic and possibly myxoidtumour measuring 25mm in maximum dimension. The tumour appears to come within 3mm of the resection margin and abuts the capsular surface.  The uninvolved liver appears unremarkable.  Blocks 1 & 2- representative tumour; 3 - uninvolved liver.
F.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder", consists of an intact gallbladder 70mm in length with a maximal external diameter of 35mm.  The serosa appears unremarkable. A possible adenomyoma is identified in the fundus. The maximum thickness of the wall is 3mm.  The mucosa has prominent yellow streaks throughout. No gallstones are identified.  Block 1- cystic duct, neck and margin; 2 - body; 3 - fundus. 
(TO:SJ; II/ec  13.10.64) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr X Slinger)
A.  Sections show mature adipose tissue with overlying dense fibrous tissue consistent with falciform ligament. There fibrous tissue containins scattered suture granulomas.  The adipose tissue contains sparse microcystic areas of fat necrosis but is otherwise unremarkable.  No lymph nodes are seen.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
B.  One lymph node shows reactive changes only (0/1).  There is intervening fibrovascular adipose connective tissue which contains medium tolarge size nerves.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  The specimen is entirely embedded and examined.  Sections show liver with overlying fibroadipose tissue showing nodular fibrosis, foci of microcystic fat necroisis and a few small suture granulomas.  The underlying subcapsular liver shows a localised bile ductular reaction associated with patchy mild chronic inflammation.  No portal tract oedema, neutrophils or canalicular cholestasis is seen.Away from this area the liver shows preserved lobular architecture and patchy mild portal chronic inflammation but is otherwise unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy.  
D.  The 20mm subcapsular tumour is deposit of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with focal mucinous features.  The carcinoma is composed of tubular and complex glands, some of which garland central areas of necrosis.  The tumour is relatively circumscribed however, there are multiple foci of lymphovascular invasion at the advancingedge.  A small focus of extracellular acellular mucin is also present at the advancing edge of tumour.  Approximately 50% of the tumour is necrotic, mostly centrally.  The tumour is 4mm clear of the resection margin.  The liver adjacent to the tumour shows some reactive changes, however, away from the tumour it appears unremarkable.
E.  The 25mm tumour is a subcapsular deposit of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with mucinous features.  The well circumscribed deposit is composed of extracellular mucin (approximately 75%); approximately 20% is viable tumour and approximately 5% of fibroinflammatory stroma with extracellular cholesterol clefts.  No significant necrosisis seen.  Multiple foci of lymphovascular invasion are present within and at the advancing age of tumour.  The cell free mucinous component is 3.5mm clear of the resection margin,while cellular tumour is 14.5mm clear of the margin.  The liver away from the tumour is unremarkable with preserved lobular architecture.  No iron deposition seen on Perls staining.
COMMENT D & E
The deposits shows similar morphology to the previously resected sigmoid colon adenocarcinoma, which also showed mucinous features (86A31377), and are consistent with metastatic colonic adenocarcinoma.
F.  Sections of gallbladder show very mild chronic cholecystitis.  There is mild fibromuscular thickening of the wall and patchy very mild transmural chronic inflammation.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSES:
A.  Falciform ligament:  Focal fibrosis and suture granulomas; no evidence of malignancy.
B.  Hilar lymph node:  One negative lymph node (0/1).
C.  Segment3 on 4b ghost lesion:  Overlying fibrosis and suture granulomas with subcapsular reactive changes in the liver; no evidence of malignancy.
D.Segment 4a/8:  20mm deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma (see comment); margins clear.
E.  Segment 4b:  25mm deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma; margins clear.
F.  Gallbladder:  Very mild chronic cholecystitis. 

