Episode No:  34Z471842D
3494718.LHD

Palilla, Newton Zachery 
Lab No:  34Z47184,34Z47184
South Avondale
WILTON  Australian Capital Territory  6124
Specimen: Fluid,Tissue
D.O.B:  20/5/2007
Sex:  F
Collected: 25/11/2064 at :
Location:  StVincent - MODBURY HOSPITAL
DR LINWOOD Andy SLAGHT
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

CLINICAL:
Metastatic adenocarcinoma on cytology.  As above.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left paracolic gutter" consists of a piece of tissue 22 x 10 x 5mm.  Serially TS.  AE for frozen section.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section.
B.  Specimen labelled "Right ovary and tube" consists of ovary 25 x 15 x 12mm and tube 40 x 5mm.  A small nodule on ovarian surface and possible tumour in paraovarian soft tissue.
Blocks:  1 - ovarian nodule; 2 - paraovarian soft tissue; 3 to 7 - sections of ovary and paraovarian soft tissue; 8 - sections of fallopian tube and fimbrial end.  AE.
C.  Specimen labelled "Right round ligament" consists of a piece of tissue 30 x 16 x 5mm.  Serially TS.  AE for frozen section.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section; 2 - frozen section.
D.  Specimen labelled "Right broad ligament" consists of a piece of tissue 52 x 20 x 10mm.  No significant tumours are seen.  The specimen is serially TS in every second slice.  Submitted for frozen section.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section; 2 - frozen section; 3 & 4 - the rest of the specimen.  AE in 1 block.
E.  Specimen labelled "Falciform ligament" consistsof a piece of fatty tissue 40 x 25 x 20mm.  Serially TS.  The cut surface shows lobulated fat with no significant tumour.  The entire specimen embedded in 4 blocks.
F.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, left tube and ovary and cervix" consists of a uterus with attached cervix, left tube and ovary weighing 49g.  The uterus measures 65 x 30 x 25mm.  Multiple small nodules are identified on the serosal surface predominantly on the anterior aspect 2mm in maximumdimension.  The ectocervix measures 30 x 20mm and is unremarkable.  On cut section, the endometrium is 1mm and the myometrium is 12mm thick.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  The left fallopian tube measures 55mm in length and 5mm in diameter.  The attached ovary measures 17 x 15 x 10mm.  The cut sections of the ovary show possible tumour nodules in the ovarian parenchyma, 6mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 4 to 6 - full LS of posterior body and cervix; 7 - representative section of nodules on the anterior aspect of uterus; 8 - representative section of fallopian tube and fimbrial end; 9 & 10 - left ovary; 11 - representative section of para-ovarian soft tissue.
G.  Specimen labelled "Appendix" consists of an appendix with attached mesoappendix measuring 50 x 5 x 5mm.  The mesoappendix is 25mm in maximum dimension.  The base of the appendix is inked blue.  There are adhesions band between the tip of the appendix and the body.  No definite tumour is identified macroscopically.
Blocks:  1 - tip of the appendix; 2 - base of the appendix;3 & 4 - the middle portion of the appendix.  AE.
H.  Specimen labelled "Spleen and omentum" consists of a spleen with attached omental cake.  The spleen weighs 129g and measures 115 x 80 x 40.  The surface is intact with no tumour deposition identified macroscopically.  Specimen serially TS.  The cut surface reveals tumour deposits on the capsule.  The tumour does not invade the hilum or the parenchyma macroscopically.  The cut sections of the omental cake show multiple tan nodules ranging from 5 to 10mm.
Blocks:  1to 3 - sections of the spleen with the lesion; 4 - normal spleen; 5 to 8 - representative section of omentum.  (TO: Dann; Almgren/rt 26.11.64)
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A.  Large cell carcinoma.
Result to Dr Jasper by Dr Elton Gugino at 1515h on 25/11/2064.
B & C.  Ovarian surface serous carcinoma.
Result to Dr Kelvin by Dr WILSON Pol at 1542h on 25/11/2064.
D.  Carcinoma present.
Result to Dr Anton by Dr JAIME Kalka at 1542h on 25/11/2064.
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr J Modlin)
A.  Paraffin embedded sections are of fibroadipose tissue showing metastatic carcinoma.  
B.  Paraffin embedded sections of the right ovary and fallopian tube show multiple foci of moderately differentiated serous adenocarcinoma. 
C.  Paraffin embedded sections are of fibroadipose tissue showing extensive involvement by metastatic adenocarcinoma.  
D.  Paraffin embedded sections are of fibroadipose tissue showing extensive involvement by metastatic carcinoma.  
E.  Sections are of fibroadipose tissue showing two isolated 0.56mm foci of superficial metastatic carcinoma.  
F.  The ectocervix and endocervix show no significant abnormality. The endometrium is weakly proliferative with focal cystic atrophy. The myometrium shows focal adenomyosis. On theuterine serosal surface there is a 0.25mm serosal deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma (F7), as well as, scattered foci of endometriosis. 
Sections of the left fallopian tube show focal serous carcinoma in situ with an adjacent 5.0mm focus of invasive serous carcinoma, extending through the fallopian tube wall to the serosal surface (F8). 
The left ovary shows scattered haemorrhagic surface deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma, up to 2.5mm, and well as, parenchymal deposits of carcinoma. There is extensive involvement of para-ovarian tissue by metastatic carcinoma. Ovarian endometriosis is also present. 
G.  Sections of appendix show multifocal deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma, involving the muscularis propria, periappendiceal fibroadipose tissue and serosal surface. Focal lymphovascular space invasion is also seen. 
H.  Sections of omentum show extensiveinvolvement by metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. There is focal lymphovascular space and omental surface involvement. At least one sampled lymph node shows metastatic carcinoma (1/1). Sections of spleen show superficial deposits of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. The deposits are over 22mm in dimension and efface the splenic capsule and the surrounding perisplenic fibroadipose tissue. 
COMMENT:
A - H.  Widespread involvement by carcinoma with features consistent with moderately differentiated serous adenocarcinoma, of probable peritoneal origin. 
Serous carcinoma extensively involves the omentum, as well as, the serosa/superficial parenchyma of the uterus, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, right round/broad ligaments, left paracolic gutter, falciform ligament, appendix and spleen. 
See body of report for details. 


