Episode No:  98O131213J
985131.HCJ

Hammerle, EUSEBIO 
Lab No:  98O13121
Creek Side
BACCHUS MARSH  Western Australia  6072
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  26/10/2013
Sex:  M
Collected: 6/2/2065 at :
Location:  DAY SURGERY UNIT
DR MATHEW Elke PITARRESI
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
***ADDITIONAL REPORT: CONSULTATION/REVIEW (24.6.65)
Report from KYOGLE MEMORIAL MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE Hospital and reported by Dr SANDY Slife.

CLINICAL:
56yo, Male, increase pain around R chest wall mass on  8/1.
CT Chest (29/4/65): Small subcutaneous, soft tissue density nodule in the right anterolateral chest wall, adjacent to the anterior aspect of the right sixth rib. There is no cortical destruction of the adjacent rib. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Mass near 6th rib" consists of a well circumscribed mass with surrounding rim of fibroadipose tissue, 30 x 20 x 18mm.  Sectioning reveals a slightly translucent grey cut surface.  One TS for frozen section.  Sample (6 x 6 x 3mm) for cytogenetics.  The rest in formalin.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section deblocked and processed urgently; 2 to 6 - rest of specimen AE; 6 - tumour for BioBank.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Spindle cell tumour, reaching margins in areas (also shown to Dr Z Guggemos).
Result to Dr TOBY Neilsen by DrCHAUNCEY PANOWICZ at 3:35pm on 06.02.2065.
(TO: QO; UQ/rt 6.3.65)
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr Z Abby/Dr Z Dieckman)
Sections show a cellular spindled cell lesion within fibroadipose tissue. The tumour has an infiltrative advancing edge and extends through subcutaneous fibroadipose tissue and is present widely at the diathermied surgical margins. The tumour consists of plump, mildly pleomorphic spindled cells arranged in short interweaving and intermediate sized cellular fascicles. The tumour cells have eosinophilic fibrillary cytoplasm, elongated oval nuclei with vesicular chromatin and prominent pin-point nucleoli. Scattered plump hyperchromatic cells are seen. Mitoses are infrequent and there is no necrosis. There are scattered extravasated red blood cells and occasional thin walled vessels and tumour cells show fat wrapping in areas. No admixed foam cells, multinucleated giant cells or haemangio-pericytomatous vessels are seen. At the edge of the lesion, tumour cells show collagen entrapment and there is a prominent lymphohistiocytic cell cuff. The tumour extends widely to diathermied margins. 
IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:
Immunohistochemical stains were performed and the results are as follows:
Tumour cells positive for: CD68, factor 13A, SMA (patchy weak) and vimentin. 
Tumour cells negative for: PanCK, CK5/6, and AE1/AE3, Desmin, Myogenin, CD31 and CD34, B-catenin. C-kit, CD21 and CD1a, S100, MelanA and HMB45.
COMMENT:
The chest wall lesion is an infiltrative low grade spindle cell lesion. The tumour shows immunohistochemical features of fibrohistiocytic/myofibroblastic differentiation. The pathologic differential diagnosis is broad andmay include a deep dermatofibroma (deep benign fibrous histiocytoma), nodular fasciitis and low grade myofibrosarcoma. The tumour extends broadly to the diathermied surgical margin. 
The slides will be sent to Professor Marett at RPA Bone and Soft Tissue Meeting for an expert opinion and a supplementary report will be issued. 

DIAGNOSIS:
Chest wall lesion (near 6th rib): Infiltrative low grade spindle cell lesion (see comment).


***ADDITIONAL REPORT: CONSULTATION/REVIEW (24.6.65)
Report from ST MARYS COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTRE Hospital and reported by Dr MARCOS RONS.
MICROSCOPIC REPORT:
The case was allocated to me in Professor Ratley's absence but I have shown it to him on his return this week.
Thanks for the opportunity to see this challenging case.  I have shown it to my colleagues and taken it to the Bone and Soft Tissue Meeting.  We agree with your differential diagnoses, and we favour a diagnosis of low grade myofibroblastic sarcoma.
As you have described, there is a spindle cell proliferationcomposed of fascicles of relatively uniform spindle shaped cells.  A fascicular pattern is seen centrally while a storiform pattern is seen at the periphery of the neoplasm.  Mild atypia is present. Inflammatory cells are present including lymphocytes, mainly at the periphery of the lesion.  The proliferation shows an infiltrative pattern and surrounds several nerves. Mitotic figures are not readily identified (up to 2 to in 10 high power fields).  No necrosis is seen.
In the immunostains provided there is patchy staining for smooth muscle actin and positive staining for vimentin and factor XIIIa.  There is focal possible staining for CD34 in the periphery of the lesion (the central area is negative).  The spindle cells are negative in immunostains for desmin, S-100, pancytokeratin, cytokeratin 5/6, CD34, myogenin, CD31, B-catenin, CD21, CD1a, Melan A and HMB45.  The results are not specific but would be compatible with a myofibroblastic proliferation.
Immunostains performed in this department show a similar pattern of staining for CD34 with absence of staining centrally within the lesion in the fascicular component but positive staining peripherally in the storiform component.  CDI 17 (suggested by A/Professor Fritz) is negative.
I favour a low grade spindle cell sarcoma with a differential diagnosis between a low grade myofibroblastic sarcoma and fibrosarcomatous transformation of dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP).  I don't see convincing evidence for DFSP, and therefore favour a low grade myofibroblastic sarcoma, but FISH for PDFGB could be considered for further evaluation.
Professor HORACE Kuzmin, Professor Manduway Jirasek and A/Professor NEB Loshbaugh agree that this spindle cell proliferation is best regarded as a low grade spindle cell sarcoma and agree with the favoured diagnosis of low grade myofibroblastic sarcoma.
The lesion extends to the margin and a wider excision for complete excision would be prudent, if indicated clinically.
SUMMARY:
Chest wall lesion (near 6th rib): Favour low grade myofibroblastic sarcoma (please see report).


