Episode No:  46S803954Y
4678039.PKY

WAILES, Tony 
Lab No:  46S80395,46S80395
Delgada
MOUNT EVELYN  TAS  2025
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  24/9/2007
Sex:  M
Collected: 13/11/2064 at 15:10
Location:  PERI-OPERATIVEUNIT-TENNANT CREEK HOSPITAL
DR PEDRO ARDELL Datson
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY, DR Darren, DR Huberman
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 1 (24.12.64)
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 2 (29.12.64)



CLINICAL:
Excision of right retroperitoneal mass, ? liposarcoma.  Resection with right kidney andadrenal.  Marking sutures: single renal vessels/double adrenal.  Hypertension (malignant).  Ca thyroid.  Asthma. 
Specimen sampled for cytogenetics when fresh.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Single stitch on renal vessels, double stitch on right adrenal gland", consists predominantly of fatty tissue measuring 355 x 280 x 120mm. The specimen includes right kidney, 130 x 65 x 55mm with ureter 140mm in length an and 5mm in diameter and right adrenal gland, 70 x 40 x 10mm.  
There is a single suture marking the renal vessels and double suture marking the adrenal gland. 
The tumouris multilobular with fibrous bands and areas that are gelatinous/myxoid.  This apparently well differentiated component measures approximately   A relatively well demarcated component within the anterior mid lateral portion of the tumour appears non-fatty solid cream  with foci of haemorrhagic discolouration and apparent fibrous areas and measures 100 x 110 x 100mm (? dedifferentiated tumour).  This  component comprised approximately which has areas of cream, fibrous, haemorrhagic, myxoid and possibly necrotic areas and The anterior surface of the tumour appears predominantly smooth.  The posterior surface appears to have areas of fibrinous material. The fat around the kidney appears like more usual adipose tissue for area of 250 x 110 x 100mm. There is an area in the mid lateral portion of the tumour measuring.  This area appears to abut the anterolateral margin. This area occupies approximately 15% of the tumour area.  This area is 80mm from the medial margin, 90mm from theinferior margin, 160mm from the superior margin and is 55mm from the anterior margin and 60mm from the posterior margin.  This area occupies approximately 15% of the tumour area.  .There is fatty tissue encasing the entire kidney. 
Within the mid portion of the kidney is a circumscribed solid 12mm golden yellow tumour which is 10mm from the renal hilar fat and 13mm from the capsule.  The renal veins and renal sinus fat are uninvolved by tumour.  In the superior pole of the kidney and separated from the solid tumour by  intervening renal parenchyma is a cyst, 80 x 45 x 35mm with smooth internal lining showing haemorrhagic discolouration.  No solid component is identified.  The cyst has a contiguous exophytic well demarcated component that projects into the suprarenal adipose tissue but is separate from the adrenal gland.  Further simple cysts are identified in the area around the golden tumour.  A further cream nodule is identified measuring 4mm which is identified in the mid pole in the kidney The cut surface reveals the adrenal gland has several nodular areas measuring up to 14mm in maximum dimension.
Block 1 -renal vascular resection margin; 2 - ureteric resection margin; 3 & 4 - fatty hilar margin; 5 - kidney to renal hilum; 6 - inferior aspect of kidney to fat; 7 - lateral aspect of kidney to fat; 8 - further hilar resection margin; 9-11 - large cyst in the superior aspect of the kidney; 12-14 - adrenal gland to superior margin; 15 & 16 - tumour in kidney; 17 - cream nodule in mid pole of kidney; 18 & 19 - posterior margin at superior end; 20-21 - posterior margin at mid portion; 22-24 - posterior margin at inferior aspect; 25-27 - medial margin inferior to kidney; 28 - superior part of lateral margin; 29 - mid part of lateral margin; 30 - inferior part of lateral margin; 31 - superior portion of anterior margin; 32 - mid portion of anterior margin; 33 - inferior portion of anterior margin; 34 & 35 - inferior margin; 36 & 37 - area of de-differentiation to lateral resection margin; 38-42 - further areas of de-differentiation in main area; 43-46 - areas of de-differentiation in more superior area.
(TO: BR/ec  14.11.64); 47 to 51 - further area of de-differentiation to the anterolateral margin; 52 to 63 - remainder of adrenal gland, AE; 64 to 67 - further representative large cystic area in superior kidney.(TO: DN; WL/rt 19.11.64)
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr L Frilling):
Retroperitoneal lipomatous tumour:
The retroperitoneal lipomatous tumour has been extensively sampled.  
The tumour is a dedifferentiated liposarcoma which is predominantly located inferior to the kidney but also shows infiltrative tongues of a well differentiated tumour in the medial and lateral to the kidney.  The periadrenal adipose tissue is uninvolved. Brown fat is also noted inthe vicinity of the kidney and adrenal gland.   Approximately 25% of the tumour, located in the superficial mid lateral aspect of the specimen, comprises dedifferentiated liposarcoma composed of non-lipogenic cellular spindle cell tumour with predominantly moderate and patchy foci of high grade cytogical atypia.  There is an admixed dispersed chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate with patchy areas of acute haemorrhage but no necrosis is seen.  Mitoses number up to 21/10 HPF in the dedifferentiated area.  No heterologous differentiation is seen. The well differentiated liposarcoma is partly circumscribed and partly infiltrative and shows varying morphology including lipoma-like, sclerosing and inflammatory areas.   In areas there is a thin fibrous pseudocapsule which contains scattered atypical stromal, consistent with well differentiated liposarcoma, which abuts the resection margin.  No lymphovascular invasion or perineural invasion is seen.  Thededifferentiated tumour is 3mm clear of the closest margin and well clear of the remaining margin.  As is often the case assessment of the margins of clearance for the well differentiated tumour is difficult because of the resemblance to mature adipose tissue and dispersed nature of the atypical cells within the well differentiated component.  The margins aresummarised below.
Renal tumour:
The 12mm tumour within the mid right kidney is Fuhrman/ISUP grade 2 renal cell carcinoma confined with the renal parenchyma, without involvement of perirenal fat, the renal sinus or renal vasculature.  The tumour is circumscribed with a delimiting pseudocapsule of compressed atrophic renal parenchyma and is composed of a papillary arrangement of large cells with clear to eosinophilic granular cytoplasm lining thin fibrovascularcores.  Rare psammomatous calcification is seen.  No intracytoplasmic melanin pigment is seen and no reverse polarity of nuclei is seen.  No sarcomatoid or rhabdoid areas are seen.No lymphovascular invasion is seen. No lymph  nodes are identified.
Immunohistochemistry:
The tumour cells within the kidney show the following profile:
Positive:  CK7 (patchy), AE1/AE3 (diffuse), Pan CK/MNF 116 (diffuse), CD10, Napsin A (patchy), PAX8(performed at EASTERN EYRE HEALTH AND AGED CARE - COWELL CAMPUS Hospital)( weak patchy with suboptimal control), AMACR (patchy)
Negative: TTF1, Thyroglobulin, 34 Beta E12 (HMW keratin). 
The large separate cyst described in the superior portion of the kidney shows minimal residual epithelial lining, instead replaced by organising haemorrhage. Focally bland simple cuboidal epithelium with some cytoplasmic clearing is present.  No nests of clear cells are seen within the surrounding wall.  The cyst is regarding as a simple cortical cyst with secondary haemorrhage.
 
An incidental benign renal medullary interstitial tumour is also present and is composed of a circumscribed non encapsulated focus within the renal medulla in which there are bland hypocellular spindle cells amongst fibrous stroma which is focally keloid like.  Entrapped atrophic tubules seen in the periphery however no tubules present within the centre of lesion.  
COMMENT 1.
The 12mm renal cell tumour is classified as a renal cell carcinoma, Fuhrman/ ISUP nuclear grade 2.  There is prominent papillary architecture and clear cell morphology The tumour lacks the reverse nuclear polarity and typical immunoprofile of clear cell papillary renal cell carcinoma, a tumour which is often associated with kidney disease.The CK7 and AMACR expression raise the possibility of a papillary renal cell carcinoma with clear cell features rather than typical clear cell renal cell carcinoma with papillary architecture.  As there is prominent papillary architecture, clear cell morphology, and focal psammomatous calcification as well as focal voluminous cytoplasm, immunohistochemistry for TFE3 is warranted to assess for the unlikely possibility of a translocation carcinoma.  The strong keratin expression is against this diagnosis.  The slides of the renal tumour will be forwarded to Dr L Segar at WEST GYNAECOLOGY Pathology for TFE3 immunostaining and her expert opinion.
The benign renomedullary interstitial tumour is probably an incidental finding but it may be seen in association with hypertension.  
Non-tumour Kidney:
The background kidney shows patchy undulation of the cortex with subcortical scars, multifocal, mild to moderate, patchy predominantly cortical interstitial fibrosis, involving about 20% of the parenchyma with associated mild interstitial chronic inflammation, predominantly lymphocytes and patchy mild tubular atrophy.  There are scattered foci of free interstitial Tamm Horsfall like protein associated with chronic inflammation in the interstitium.
The renal arterioles and arteries show mild to focally moderate fibrointimal sclerosis and myxoid change and reduplication of elastic laminae. There is mild patchy hyalinosis within renal arterioles.  No evidence offibrinoid necrosis or vasculitis is seen.  No cholesterol emboli are seen.  
Some glomeruli appear enlarged and there is a possible mild focal increase in the mesangial matrix, however glomerular cellularity is not increased.  There is patchyglomerulosclerosis, both partial and complete, as well as chronic glomerular ischaemic changes with periglomerular sclerosis and basement membrane wrinkling.   Some of the glomeruli show possible capsular adhesions and a single glomerulus shows possible nodular sclerosis which is highlighted on silver staining.  
No necrotising lesions, crescents or segmental sclerosis is seen.  The Congo Red stain for Amyloid is negative. No red cell fragmentation is seen. No double contouring seen on silver staining.  
Paraffin immunoflurence studies (IgG, IgA, IgM, C3, C1q, fibrinogen, kappa, lambda) are negative.
COMMENT 2:
The non tumour kidney shows changes compatible with mild to moderate hypertensive nephropathy.  Additionally there is patchy enlargement of glomeruli, patchy mesangial matrixexpansion, focal possible glomerular nodular sclerosis and possible glomerular capsular adhesions. Renal paraffin immunofluorescence studies are negative.  These features raise the possibility of early diabetic glomerulopathy or early focal segmental sclerosis, however, further clinico-pathological correlation is necessary.  No features of malignant hypertension are seen.  A renal cortical sample will be sent for electron microscopy and a supplementary report will be issued.
Adrenal Cortical Nodules:
The adrenal gland is entirely embedded and examined.  The adrenal gland shows multiple non-pigmented cortical nodules of varying size composed of an admixture of zonafasciculata type cells and zone glomerulosa type cells in a compact alveolar and nested arrangement.  No significant nuclear pleomorphism, necrosis, lymphovascular invasion, infiltration of periadrenal adipose tissue or mitotic activity is seen.  The non-nodular cortex does not show obvious atrophic changes.  A single cluster of psammomatous calcification is present in the renal cortex and is of uncertain significance; however, no evidence of metastatic carcinoma is seen.  
COMMENT 3:
The multiple benign adrenalcortical nodules are favoured to represent a multinodular cortical "hyperplasia".  This may be either functional or non-functional, the latter which may be seen secondary to hypertension rather than its primary cause.  Correlation with the clinical findings, imaging of the left adrenal gland and adrenal cortical hormone status is suggested.  
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR RETROPERITONEAL LIPOSARCOMA
PROCEDURE: 
Wide local excision
SITE:
ANATOMICAL LOCATION 
Retroperitoneal
COMPARTMENT
Deep, subfascial
PRIMARY TUMOUR DIAGNOSIS:
Histological type:  Dedifferentiated liposarcoma
Differentiation score (FNCLCC): 3
SIZE:  	Total tumour size estimate 300mm in maximum dimension with dedifferentiated tumour approximately 80-100mm
HISTOLOGICAL GRADE:  (if applicable) 
FNCLCC Grade *3
Differentiation score:                                              3
Mitoses per 10 HPF:	  21       Score                     3
Necrosis %:	  0                     Score:                    1Score:	        7
TUMOUR GROWTH PATTERN:
Partly circumscribed, partly infiltrative.
EXTENT OF TUMOUR: (Compartment involvement)
Extensive involment of retroperitoneal soft tissue, including medial and lateral to kidney; periadrenal fat not involved.
Lymphovascular invasion:  Not seen
Perineural invasion:  Not seen
Skip metastases:  Not seen
Lymph node metastases: No lymph nodes identified.
MARGINS OF EXCISION:
Well differentiated component:
Anterior/superficial:  Positive (Blocks 32 and 33 mid and inferior), 0.3mm lateral to kidney.
Lateral: Positive (Blocks28, 30 & 37)
Posterior/deep Positive (Block 20 mid, inferior to level of kidney)
Inferior:  Positive (Block 36)
Medial: 0.2mm intervening fibroadipose tissue (Block 26 inferiorto level of kidney,)
Renal Hilar:  Approximately 5mm withintervening fat favoured to represent brown fat rather than liposarcoma (Block 8).
Superior:  Well clear >10mm 
Dedifferentiated component:
Lateral: 3mm with intervening well differentiated liposarcoma (Block37).
Anterior/superficial:  3mm (Block 49, laterally) with intervening well differentiated liposarcoma.
Other margins: Well clear (>10mm).
RESPONSE TO NEOADJ UVANT THERAPY: n/a
MISCELLANEOUS ANCILLARY STUDIES: Cytogenetics pending.
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR RENAL CARCINOMA
Position of tumour:  Right kidney, mid
Dimensions of tumour:  12mm in maximum dimension
Tumour type:  Renal cell carcinoma
Fuhrman grade: 
	Grade 2 	nucleoli visible at 400x magnification but not prominent at 100x 	magnification. 
Sarcomatoid differentiation: Absent
Rhabdoid differentiation: Absent
Necrosis: Absent
Tumour spread beyond kidney:  Absent
Tumour extends beyond Gerota's fascia:  Absent
Tumour in renal sinus fat:  Absent
Tumour in renal vein or its segmental (muscle containing branches):  Absent
Lymphovascular invasion:  Absent
Tumour in adrenal gland:  Absent
Lymph node status:  Nil lymph nodes identified
	Site:
	Number of lymph nodes:
	Number of involved nodes:
Involvement of surgical margins:
	Absent
	All margins well clear >10mm
AJCC tumour stage (7th Ed.)
pT1a Tumour 4cm or less in greatest dimension, limited to the kidney

pNX  No lymph nodes identified for assessment.
pM0 No distant mestasasis
COMMENT:
Pathological stagingis based on examination of the specimens submitted and clinical information provided.
Scoring Algorithm to Predict Metastases after Radical Nephrectomy (Leibovich et al., Cancer, 2003)

Primary tumor status score (pathologic T stage)
pT1a 	0
Regional lymph node status (N stage) score
pNx 	0
Tumor size (cm)
< 10 	0
Nuclear grade score
2 	0
Histologic tumor necrosis score
No 	0
Total score (out of 11): 0
DIAGNOSIS: 
Retroperitoneal tumour, right kidney, right adrenal gland:
-  Dedifferentiated liposarcoma (see above for margins), FNLCC grade 3.  
-  Incidental 12mm renal cell carcinoma, favour papillary renal cell carcinoma with clear cell features, pT1a Nx M0, Stage 1 (AJCC 7TH edition 2010); further immunohistochemistry and external review pending; supplementary report to follow
-  Changes consistent with hypertensive nephropathy (see comment 2); cannot exclude early diabetic glomerulopathy or early focal segmental glomerulosclerosis; electron microscopy pending, supplementary report to follow.
-  Haemorrhagic simple renal cortical cyst.
-  Incidental benign renomedullary interstitial tumour.
-  Multiple benign adrenocortical nodules (see comment 3) and focal adrenal cortical calcification.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 1 (24.12.64)  
Sections of the renal cell carcinoma and renal cyst were sent to Dr L Merz at ANTENATAL WARD Pathology, TURA BEACH, however, as she was away the slides were reviewed by Dr L Sonders.  Dr Julius reports as follows:
"MICROSCOPIC:
Sections of the tumour within the mid right kidney show a renal cell carcinoma, ISUP nucleolar grade 3, with papilliform architecture and cells with abundant clear to eosinophilic cytoplasm. Focal psammomatous calcification is identified. The morphological features of the tumour are reminiscent of a translocation carcinoma.
A panel of immunohistochemical stains were performed. Tumour cells show diffuse positive staining for CD10, positive staining for AMACR, patchy positive staining for CK7, and absence of staining for EMA. TFE3 stains were performed on both blocks (15 and 16), showing very focal weak staining at the periphery of the tumour in one of the blocks, and complete absence of staining in the other. The TFE3 stains are interpreted as negative.
Sections of the separate cystic lesion in the superior pole of the kidney, show apartly denuded cyst lined in part by a single layer of flat to cuboidal .epithelium with clear cytoplasm. The features are those of a multilocular cystic renal cell neoplasm low malignant potential. (This is a recent name change for thisentity, which was previously classified as multilocular cystic renal cell carcinoma).
COMMENT:
The tumour within the mid right kidney is best regardedas renal cell carcinoma unclassified. Although the morphology is reminiscent of a translocation carcinoma, the lack of any significant staining for TFE3 immunohistochemical stains, and the presence of staining for CK7, does not support the diagnosis. (TFE3 translocation carcinomas typically show positive staining for CD10 and AMACR, and negative staining for EMA and CK7).The tumour morphology and immunoprofile are in addition not diagnostic of clear cell renal cell carcinoma, nor papillary renal cell carcinoma.
Dr.Hershel Kielbasa has seen the sections and is in agreement. 
DIAGNOSIS:
RIGHT KIDNEY	-	RENAL CELL CARCINOMA UNCLASSIFIED
                                   -	MULTILOCULAR CYSTIC RENAL CELL NEOPLASM OF LOW MALIGNANT POTENTIAL."

			
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 2 (29.12.64)
        The STAWELL REGIONAL HEALTH's Hospital Laboratory Services, APA
Electron Microscopy Consultation
Clinical Notes	
62 year old male undergoing resection of a right retroperitoneal soft tissue tumour along with right kidney and adrenal. Renal cortex retrieved from formalin and processed for electron microscopy to address concerns raised at light microscopy of mild to moderate hypertensive nephropathy, glomerulomegaly, some nodular sclerosing lesions and capsular adhesions. Paraffin immunohistochemistry was negative.
Previous biopsies:	None.
ELECTRON MICROSCOPY FINDINGS;
Two glomeruli were available for assessment.
Multiple basement membrane thickness measurements have been made (mean 418 nm, min 265, max 552). A recent consensus statement suggests a diagnosis of diabetic glomerulopathy with a mean GBM thickness of more than 430 nm in adult males (JASN 2010;21:556-563). On this basis I am unable to diagnose diabetic glomerulopathy in this material.
Hypertensive glomerulopathy shows various changes depending on the duration and severity of the condition. The expanded, lucent subendothelial zone characteristic of established hypertensive glomerulopathy is not seen in this material and I do not see ultrastructural support for diagnosis of significant hypertensive glomerulopathy.
There is some podocyte swelling, attributable to formalin fixation, but overall ultrastructural preservation is very good and certainly interpretable. Foot process morphology appears normal around the capillary loops without effacement or microvillous change. Some degree of podocytopathy would be expected in Focal and Segmental Glomeruloscierosis.
The only convincing ultrastructural abnormality identified is some segmental GBM thickening and corrugation. This is a marker of chronic glomerular injury from various causes and is certainly not specific for diabetic nephropathy, FSGS or any other form of glomerulonephritis.
SUMMARY:
Ultrastructural preservation is good, despite prior fixation in formalin. There is no qualitative or quantitative support for diabetic glomerulopathy. Ultrastructural features and Focal and Segmental Glomerulosclerosis are not seen.  The features are insufficient for diagnosis of hypertensive nephropathy.  
Dr YONG MCPHERON.   

