Episode No:  73C556928A
7305569.HWA

Bradly, FELECIA DON 
Lab No:  73C55692
Borough High
EUROA  South Australia  3281
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  1/5/2010
:  F
Collected: 04/08/2065 at 09:00
Location:  105 HAMRUN CIRCUIT
DR Carlton Brierton
Distribution:  DR Graig,DR TODD,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:
Post chemotherapy ca ovary. Appendicae epiploicae. Uterovesicalpouch, distal pouch of Douglas, superior haemorrhoidal vessels, right pelvic node, rectosigmoid, colonic anastomosis gings, gastrocolic ligament, uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaries, cervix, sigmoid colon, omentum. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  "APPENDICEAL EPIPLOICAE". A piece of fatty tissue measuring 70x30x13mm. The specimen looks oedematous and is sectioned transversely. RS (M-4).
B. "UTEROVESICAL POUCH". Few pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring an aggregate 65x50x20mm. RS (M-4).
C. "DISTAL POUCH OF DOUGLAS". Multiple pieces of tissue measuring 10mm in maximum extent. Specimen is bisected. AE (2-1).
D. "SUPERIOR HAEMORRHOIDAL VESSELS". Piece of fatty tissue measuring 40mm in length with diameter of up to 5mm. The specimen sectioned transversely. AE (M-3).
E. "RIGHT PELVIC NODE'. A few pieces of fatty tissue measuringan aggregate of 20x15x7mm.  AE (M-2).
F. "RECTOSIGMOID". An unorientated segment of colon measuring 105mm in length with circumference of up to 50mm. The specimen looks oedematous. There are no obvious lesions seen within the lumen of the bowel on the serosal surface of the bowel and mesentery. The specimen is not orientated. One lymph node found within the mesentery measuring 10mm in maximum. 
(1 LS of margin 1; 2 LS of margin 2; 3&4 RS ofthe bowel; 5 one lymph node sectioned transversely). RS (M-5).
G. "ANASTOMOSIS RINGS COLON". Two donuts on the tip of the instrument on the staple gun. The distal donut measures 10mm in length with diameter of up 20mm. The proximal donut also measures 10mm in length with diameter of up to 20mm. The donuts are bisected. 
(1&2 distal donut bisected; 3&4 proximal donut bisected). AE (M-4).
H. "GASTROCOLIC LIGAMENT". A piece offatty tissue measuring 40x25x15mm. There is no nodular deposition seen within the specimen measuring 10mm in diameter. Specimen sectioned transversely, a few small depositions identified. AE (M-4).
J. "SIGMOID COLON UTERUS,OVARIES, FALLOPIAN TUBES, CERVIX". Uterus with cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries, left sided parametrial tumour and attached segment of the colon. The uterus with cervix measure 80x40x45mm. The whole specimen weighs 368g. The uteruswith cervix are sectioned longitudinally. The endometrium measures up to 2mm in thickness and myometrium measures up to 16mm. The right fallopian tube measures 70mm in length with diameter up to 12mm. The right ovary measures 30x20x14mm. The left fallopian tube measures 45mm in length with diameter of up to 5mm. The left ovary measures 35x15x15mm. There is a large nodular tumour seen attached to the left side of the body of the uterus. It has rounded shape and measures 75x60x60mm and appears solid and firm. The segment of colon is attached to the right side of the body of the uterus. It measures 80mm in length with circumference of up to 30mm. Beside the large fibroid on the left side of the uterusthere are two more fibroids identified within the fundus measuring 15mm and 20mm in diameter. Anterior surgical margin was inked blue, posterior black. There are a couple of deposits of tumour identified on the sectioning of the bowel adherent to the uterus 8-17mm in extent. The larger deposit is located within the distal part of the loop of the bowel at the point of adhesion of the bowel to the uterus. 
(1 anterior cervix; 2 posterior cervix; 3 anterior body; 4 posterior body; 5 anterior fundus; 6 posterior fundus; 7-9 RS of the right fallopian tube, [please note no fimbrial end was identified]; 10&11 RS of the right ovary; 12 proximal margin of the loop of the bowel; 13 distal margin ofthe loop of the bowel with deposition of tumour; 14 proximal deposition of tumour; 15 another RS of the distal deposition of tumour at the point of adhesion of the uterus; 16 right parametrial tissue; 17 left fallopian tube; 18 left fimbrial end; 19 deposition of tumour close to the left tube; 20 RS of the left ovary; 21 left parametrial tissue; 22&23 RS of the large fibroid).
K. "OMENTUM". A piece of fatty tissue measuring 110x50x20mm. It appears oedematous. There are multiple depositions of tumour identified within specimen on the sections. RS (M-4/YL/ht).
MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr. T. Bleak)
A. Sections show fibrofatty tissue in which there is an infiltrating poorly-differentiated carcinoma. The tumour comprises of malignant epithelioid cells showing prominent nucleoli and pale eosinophilic cytoplasm. There is focal necrosis and psammomatous calcification.  In the background,there is florid inflammatory cell infiltrate including histiocytes and stromal fibrosis.  Focally, the tumour comprised of pleomorphic hyperchromatic tumour cells forming tubuloglandular structures. There is focal lymphovascular invasion. 
B. Sections show fibroadipose tissue including smooth muscle bundle. There is a diffuse infiltrate of poorly-differentiated carcinoma associated with lymphocytic infiltrate, similar to those seen in Specimen A. The tumourcomprises of pleomorphic epithelioid cells forming solid clusters. The tumour cells show eosinophilic cytoplasm and prominent nucleoli with focal calcification. Lymphovascular invasion is identified. 
C. Sections show fibroadipose tissue in which there is an infiltrating tumour with focal psammomatous calcification. The tumour cells are epithelioid, forms solid clusters and appear degenerate. The background is fibrotic with diffuse chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate which is histiocytic rich.
D. Sections show fibroadipose tissue in which there are large arteries present. Within the fibrous tissue, there are scattered single epithelioid tumour cells present. 
E. Sections show five lymph nodes. No evidence of metastatic tumour.
F. Sections show colon. The serosal surface shows a diffuse infiltrate of acute inflammatory cells and fibrin material. The mucosal surface appears unremarkable. The lymph node identified within the fatty mesentery show metastatic carcinoma with focal necrosis. The tumour involves most of the nodal parenchyma. Sections from both ends of the bowel segment show unremarkable mucosa. 
G. Sections show colon. No evidence of malignancy.
H. Sections show fibroadipose tissue in which there are multiple deposits of poorly-differentiated carcinoma similar to those seen in previous specimen. The tumour cells are epithelioid, show pleomorphic nucleoli with prominent nucleoli. The cytoplasm appears pale with eosinophilic globules. 
J. Sections of cervix show mild chronic inflammation. The endometrium is inactive. There is an endometrial polypidentified. The myometrium shows multiple leiomyomas. There are focal changes of adenomyosis. One of the leiomyomas show focal haemosiderin deposition. 
Sections from the right fallopian tube show poorly-differentiated carcinoma with extensive necrosis. The tumour shows dystrophic calcification in the necrotic area. There is tumour extensively replaced the right ovary, extending into the serosal fat of the attached colonic segment.  Focally, the tumour alsoextends to involve the muscularis propria. No involvement of the submucosa or colonic mucosa is identified. There is lymphatic permeation. Both ends of the colonic mucosa appear clear of tumour. 
The left fallopian tube alsoshows foci of tumour within the lamina propria with extensive lymphatic permeation. In the left ovary, there is also deposition of tumour associated with cystic change and psammomatous calcification. Tumour is also seen in the left parametrial tissue. 
K. Sections show fibroadipose tissue in which there are multiple deposits of tumour noted. 
Comment: There is extensive involvement of poorly-differentiated carcinoma showing cytoplasmic clearing, prominent nucleoli and eosinophilic globules in an inflammatory background rich in histiocytes.  A history of chemotherapy is noted and most of the features identified in the tumour aresecondary to chemotherapy effect.  Small foci of relatively preserved tumour cells are noted showing changes favouring high grade serous carcinoma. 
Immunohistochemistry stains on the morphologically preserved area show positive staining for cytokeratin CAM5.2, cytokeratin 7, EMA, p16, Pax-8.
Very occasional cells are positive for Oestrogen receptor.
Negative:  Cytokeratin 20, calretinin, CEA, progesterone receptor, CDX2.
In the areas where the tumour cells are altered due to chemotherapy, immunohistochemistry stains show very occasional cytokeratin positive cells.
WT1 is positive.
Carcinoma involves appendix epiploicae, pouch of Douglas, uterovesical pouch, colon, both ovaries and tubes. There is extensive lymphovascular invasion. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A. APPENDICEAL EPIPLOICAE
- POORLY DIFFERENTIATED CARCINOMA FAVOUR HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA.  EXTENSIVE CHEMOTHERAPY EFFECT CHANGES.
B. UTEROVESICAL POUCH
- POORLY DIFFERENTIATED CARCINOMA.
C. DISTAL POUCH OF DOUGLAS
- POORLY DIFFERENTIATED CARCINOMA WITH DEGENERATIVE CHANGE.
D. SUPERIOR HAEMORRHOIDAL VESSELS
- POORLY DIFFERENTIATED CARCINOMA.
E. RIGHT PELVIC NODE
- NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY.
F. RECTOSIGMOID
- METASTATIC CARCINOMA IN ONE OUT OF ONE LYMPH NODE.
G. ANASTOMOSIS RINGS COLON
- NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY.
H. GASTROCOLIC  LIGAMENT
- POORLY DIFFERENTIATED CARCINOMA.
J. SIGMOID COLON, UTERUS, OVARIES, FALLOPIAN TUBES, CERVIX
- POORLY DIFFERENTIATED CARCINOMA INVOLVING BOTH OVARIES AND TUBES AND COLONIC WALL.
K. OMENTUM
- POORLY DIFFERENTIATED CARCINOMA.
18/4/65 cy 

