
 004298.YZJ
BRANTER, CHI
00L29899

Last edited : 24/6/2065		Page: 2

CLINICAL:
Extended Lt hemihepatectomy.  Previous sinus carcinoma.  ?Primary liver tumour or met.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Extended left liver resection" consists of an extended left hemihepatectomy 195 x 180 x 60mm, weighing 598g.  The specimen includes the falciform ligament, with a segment of liver, 100 x 75 x 25mm, located to the right of the superior portion of the falciform ligament.  Within this liver segment, there is an infiltrative tan tumour, 55 x 32 x 45mm.  The tumour is close to the surgical margin. The remainder of the liver is unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 & 2 - paired section tumour with overlying capsule and deep margin; 3 to 5 - tumour with deep margin (4 -reserved block); 6 - tumour and adjacent uninvolved left lobe of liver; 7 & 8 - tumour at superior aspect of liver; 9 - hepatic capsule with falciform ligament; 10 - uninvolved left lobe of liver.  Specimen photograph taken.

B.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of a gallbladder 105 x 40 x 40mm.  The serosa is grey, smooth and shiny.  The gallbladder wall is 1mm thick, with an area of adenomyosis at the fundus.  The mucosa is green and velvety.  No gallstones arepresent.
Blocks:  1 - cystic duct margin; 2 - body; 3 - fundus.  (TO: DX; BR/rt 22.6.65)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr A Croson):
A. Sections of the liver show a 55mm poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.  The lesion has a similar morphology to the previous skull base specimen (Immunology 00429-89Z), in keeping with a metastasis from the nasal cavity.
The lesion is composed of sheets of tumour cells with large, pleomorphic nuclei with a variable chromatin pattern and moderately abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm.  Intracytoplasmic mucin ispresent on diPAS staining. Comedo type necrosis is seen.
Multifocal lymphovascular invasion is seen.
The lesion involves the liver parenchymal margin over a 10 mm front (A4, 5).
The adjacent liver shows moderate macrovesicular steatosis with portal-portal and portal-venous bridging.  There is mild chronic inflammation in the portal tract with mild focal interface activity. No convincing necro-inflammatory lesions, ballooning degeneration or zone 3 pericellular fibrosis are seen to suggest steatohepatitis. No changes of acute cholestasis are seen. Minimal focal iron deposition is seen on Perls stain. No additional pathology is seen in orcein, reticulin, diPAS and rhodamine staining.
COMMENTuninvolved liver shows moderate macrovesicular steatosis with bridging fibrosis. Possible causes include viruses and drugs. Autoimmune disease is considered less likely but cannot be excluded. Correlation with clinical and serologicalfindings is recommended.
B. Sections of the gall bladder show chronic cholecystitis and adenomyosis in the fundus.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS
A. Extended left liver resection: 
- 55mm poorly differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma, in keeping with nasal origin
- Moderate macrovesicular steatosis with bridging fibrosis (see comment)
B. Gall bladder: chronic cholecystitis and adenomyosis

