
Episode No:  06H3770230
0623770.HJB

JULIET, MILAN Casey 
Lab No:  06H37702
Apperson Ridge
EUROA  South Australia  4676
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  22/11/2036
Sex:  M
Collected: 03/02/2065 at 10:00
Location:  ENVOI Pathology-COLAC AREA HEALTH
PRO Sally Sonny Riebow
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:
Colorectal ca with paraaortic and liver metastases. Peritonectomy and HIPEC. Gallbladder, omentum, small bowel, rectosigmoid, segment III liver II, retroperitoneal lymph nodes III, R iliac lymph nodes IV, umbilical and port site V. Prev: biopsies BQ-23-77023 Sigmoid tumour, 29/12/2064, reported at SEALS, and BQ-23-77023 omental metastasis biopsy, 16/1/2065, reported at Southern IML Pathology, with MMRP IHC.
MACROSCOPIC:
A. 'GALLBLADDER, SMALL BOWEL, OMENTUM, SIGMOID RECTUM'. 
Several specimens:
Small bowel:  130 mm long, with 40 mm mesentery. There is a tumour (tumour 1)40 mm from one end, measuring 35 mm, circumferential, ulcerated and fungating. The tumour extends to the pale serosal surface and for about 5 mm into mesenteric fat.
(1 margins; 2and3 tumour and mesenteric fat; 4and5 tumour and serosa; 6-9 lymph nodes [6 two, 7 two, 8 one, 9 ?two]).
Colon: 
An anterior resection which includes sigmoid and part of rectum, length  240 mm, with mesocolon 60 mm wide proximally. The distal 50 mm is inferior to peritoneal reflection and has pericolic fat 10 mm wide attached. 
Situated 60 mm from the proximal margin there is a tumour (tumour 2) 35 mm diameter The tumour is fungating, circumferential with a slightly with a mucinous component. The tumour invades through the muscularis propria into pericolic fat.  There are two tumour deposits in mesocolon separate from this tumour. The first is 10 mm diameter and 35 mm from the carcinoma and is 15mm from the mesocolic cut margin. The second is 15 mm diameter is close to if not involving the serosal surface and is 15mm from mesocolic cut margin.
In the distal part of the specimen at the peritoneal reflection there is an area of peritoneal surface ulceration 10 mm diameter overlying tumour in colon wall 25 x 25 x 10 mm. This area of tumour does not appear to involved the colon mucosa. The tumour involves mesorectal fat and is close to part of attached seminal vesicle and vas tissue. Carcinoma is close to the radial mesorectal margin in this area (<2 mm).
(10 proximal colon margin; 11 distal resection margin; 12and13 tumour mesorectal fat just inferior to anterior peritoneal reflection on right side near vas; 14 proximal mesocolic tumour deposit; 15 second proximal mesocolic tumour deposit with serosa; 16 same tumour deposit with proximal mesocolic cut resection margin; 17 main area tumour 2 with pericolic fat; 18 further tumour 2 with serosa; 19 two nodes; 20 two nodes; 21 three; 22 four; 23 two nodes).
Gallbladder:  
The gallbladder is 80x20mm. The serosal surface is smooth, The wall is 3mm thick and the mucosa is normal. No stones. (24 cystic duct; 25 body; 26 fundus).
An irregular piece of fibrofatty tissue with a peritoneal surface which is approximately 80x40x5mm. There is a white nodule ?skin at one end.  (27 representative section).
Omentum:  The omentum is approximately 430x110x10mm. No nodules or mucinous deposits are seen.  (28-31 Representative sections). RS (M-31).
B. 'LIVER SEGMENT III'. A roughly rectangular piece of liver, 20x15x10mm. There is a solid white nodule 10mm in diameter present within the parenchyma. 
(1-3 Representative sections of nodule and liver). RS (M-3).
C. 'RETROPERITONEAL LYMPH NODES'. Multiple pieces of fatty tissue in aggregate of 50x50x20mmwithin which multiple lymph nodes containing tumour deposits.  (1 three nodes; 2 one node; 3 one node; 4 one node; 5 one node; 6 one node; 7 one node; 8 one node). RS (M-8).
D. 'RIGHT ILIAC LYMPH NODE'. Fatty tissue in aggregate 40x30x10mm within which there are ?four nodes.  (1-4 single node). RS (4-4).
E. 'UMBILICUS AND PORT SITE'. Two pieces of tissue. The first is a fibrofatty tissue which is 30x20x5mm and is unremarkable. The second consists of umbilicus around which there is an ellipse of skin which is 45x20mm. There is underlying fibrofatty tissue which is 50mm in depth. Cut sections reveal dense fibrous tissue within the fatty tissue but no focallesions seen.  (1-3 Representative sections of umbilicus and underlying fatty tissue from deep to superficial; 4and5 sections of separate piece of tissue). RS (5-5/BI/ht).
- MICROSCOPIC -
A. GALLBLADDER, SMALL BOWEL, OMENTUM, SIGMOID RECTUM'
Initial comments:
The carcinoma in small bowel (tumour 1) may be a primary and is reported as such but a metastasis from colon is still possible.
The sigmoid colon tumour (tumour 2) appears to be a colon primary. 
The inferior peritoneal reflection tumour (tumour 3) does not involve overlying rectal mucosa and is probably a peritoneal metastasis from the sigmoid carcinoma, with subjacent invasion into perirectal tissue and tissue near vas and seminal vesicle.
TUMOUR (1) SMALL BOWEL (A POSSIBLE PRIMARY TUMOUR x1)
Tumour type: Adenocarcinoma
Histologic grade:  Low grade (moderately differentiated)
Depth of invasion: T3 tumour into mesenteric tissue
Peritoneal surface involvement: Close but involvement not identified
Excision margins of small bowel tumour: clear of this tumour
Small vessel (lymphatic) invasion:  Not identified
Intramural vein invasion:  Not identified
Extramural vein invasion:  Present 
Perineural invasion:  Not identified
Small bowel mesenteric lymph nodes negative for tumour (0/6).
TUMOUR (2) UPPER SIGMOID COLON(A PRIMARY TUMOUR x1)
Tumour type: Adenocarcinoma, partly mucinous
Histologic grade:  High grade (variable pattern with some poorly differentiated areas of single cell and small cluster pattern of invasion with prominent tumourbudding) 
Depth of invasion:  T3 tumour invades into pericolorectal tissue
Peritoneal surface involvement: Close but not identified in main tumour (peritoneal involvement by mesenteric metastastic tumour deposits present)margins of sigmoid colon tumour: appear clear
Venous invasion: Not identified
Small vessel (lymphatic) invasion: Present
Perineural invasion:  Present, near mesenteric metastasis tumour deposit
Regional lymph nodes (near tumour 2, pericolonic regional in mesocolon): 
8 of 13 lymph nodes are positive for metastatic carcinoma (8/13)
TUMOUR (3) INFERIOR PERITONEAL REFLECTION TUMOUR DEPOSIT
Inferior peritoneal reflection tumour deposit, similar appearance to sigmoid tumour, and is probably a peritoneal metastasis, with subjacent invasion into perirectal tissue and tissue near vas and seminal vesicle. The tumour is close to (1 mm from) radial mesorectal margin in one section.
DISTANT METASTASES IN SPECIMENS: 
Liver metastasis (Specimen B) 
Peritoneal sigmoid colon mesocolic deposits. 
Peritoneal metastasis to inferior peritoneal reflection region (tumour3). 
Nonregional retroperitoneal and iliac lymph node metastases.
Other findings: 
Polyps away from tumour: Not identified
Polyp adjacent to carcinoma: No lesion seen adjacent to small bowel carcinoma. The sigmoid carcinoma has an adjacent tubulovillous adenoma.
Remote colon: unremarkable
Representative tumour:
Immunostains: A2 small bowel, A17 sigmoid colon primary 
Reserve: A3, A18
 
Immunostains: 
Mismatch Repair (MMR) enzymes, Immunostains:  pending
Other:
Gallbladder is unremarkable. 
Separate pieces of peritoneal/omental sections show no tumour.
B. LIVER SEGMENT 3:
Sections of liver show a deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma.
C. RETROPERITONEAL LYMPH NODES:
8 of 10 lymph nodes are positive for metastatic carcinoma (8/10)
D. RIGHT ILIAC LYMPH NODE:
2 of 7 lymph nodes are positive for metastatic carcinoma (2/7)
E. UMBILICUS AND PORT SITE:
Sections show skin, fat, muscle, fascia, granulation tissue, and a suture granuloma reaction.
Stage: 
T3 N2M1 (sigmoid carcinoma)
T3 N0 MX (small bowel carcinoma)
- - DIAGNOSIS AND SUMMARY - -
A. GALLBLADDER, SMALL BOWEL, OMENTUM, SIGMOID RECTUM:
1. Small bowel: 
- adenocarcinoma, a possible small bowel primary x1;
- adenocarcinoma, low grade (moderately differentiated);
- tumour invades into mesenteric tissue, close to peritoneal surface; 
- extramural vein invasion present,
- small bowel regional mesenteric lymph nodesnegative for tumour (0/6);
2. Upper sigmoid colon:
- Adenocarcinoma (a primary tumour x1)
- Adenocarcinoma, partly mucinous;  
- High grade (variable pattern with some poorly differentiated areas);
- tumour invades into pericolorectal tissue, close to peritoneal surface;
- Excision margins of sigmoid colon tumour appear clear;
- Small vessel (lymphatic) invasion present
- perineural invasion present
- Regional lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma (8/13)
- Mesocolic soft tissue/peritoneal metastases present x 2;
- Peritoneal involvement by mesenteric metastastic tumour deposits.
3. Inferior peritoneal reflection tumour deposit: 
- peritoneal metastasis from sigmoid colon carcinoma with adjacent growth into perirectal tissue, close to radial mesorectal margin (1 mm). 
B. LIVER SEGMENT 3 - 
- liver with deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma.
C. RETROPERITONEAL LYMPH NODES - 
- nonregional lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma (8/10)
D. RIGHT ILIAC LYMPH NODE - 
- nonregional lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma (2/7)
E. UMBILICUS AND PORT SITE - 
- Sections show skin, fat, muscle, fascia, granulation tissue, suture granuloma reaction.
6/2/65, B Betti.  
- - - -
Immunostains for DNA Mismatch Repair (MMR) proteins 
BLOCK A17, SIGMOID COLON:
MLH1: marked reduction of staining with loss of staining in most areas of tumour, one small area with some retained staining, uncertain significance, still probably abnormal.
PMS2: loss of staining
MSH2:  normal staining (intact expression)
MSH6:  normal staining (intact expression)
BLOCK A2, SMALL BOWEL:
MLH1: loss of staining
PMS2: loss of staining
MSH2:  normal staining (intact expression)
MSH6:  normal staining (intact expression)
Comments: 
Immunohistochemistry of cancer tissues for mismatch repair proteins is a surrogate marker for MSI status, with an absence of one or more of the mismatch repairproteins considered an abnormal result.  There is focal weak positive staining for MLH1 in the sigmoid tumour but most is negative and the result is probably abnormal for this tumour as well as the small bowel tumour.
26/2/65,B Deckert.  

