Episode No:  96M599998G
9645999.ZWG

Clugston, PETRA 
Lab No:  96M59999
Deyne
NAROOMA  New South Wales  4214
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  28/7/2004
Sex:  M
Collected: 12/03/2059 at 20:00
Location:  BRIGHAM & WOMEN'S HOSPITAL-REDCLIFFE HOSPITAL
PRO Sherri Sarge Heinbach
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
HISTORY
Peritonectomy.
Spleen.
Gallbladder.
R colon.
Appendix.
Peritoneal tumour.
Omentum.
MACROSCOPIC
"SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, APPENDIX, OMENTUM AND PERITONEAL TUMOUR".  Terminal ileum measuring 60mm in length with a diameter of25mm and caecum and ascending colon measuring 110mm in length with a diameter of approximately 42mm.  No tumour is seen within the lumen.  The attached mesocolon measures 110x70mm.  No appendix is identified attached to this specimen andthere is a staple present at the appendiceal orifice.  The proximal and distal margins have got staple lines.  Approximately 3mm of stapled margin is removed and the underlying surface inked blue.  The mucosal surface of the terminal ileum and colon appears unremarkable.  The serosal surface does not reveal any definite tumour deposits.  The ileocaecal valve is unremarkable.  
(1 proximal resection margin; 2 distal resection margins; 3 random section of the colon; 4 four lymph nodes; 5 four lymph nodes).
An appendix is identified separately within the container.  The appendix measures 55mm in length with a diameter ranging from10mm to a dimension of 22mm where there is an irregular area on the surface.  Attached mesoappendix measures 60x30x10mm.  Mucin material is identified within the lumen of the appendix on slicing.  The mucinous material in the lumen isextending to the serosal surface.  
(6 one half of LS from the proximal end; 7,8,9 TS through the middle of the appendix with the mucinous tumour; 10 one half of LS through the tip of the appendix).
A specimen ofspleen present in the container weighs 223g with maximum dimensions of 160x90x50mm.  The surface of the spleen has a rough area which reveals some haemorrhage.  No definite mucinous deposits are seen on the capsule or within the parenchyma.  
(11&12 two representative sections from the rough areas on the surface of the spleen).
Gallbladder present measures 95x55x25mm.  No definite deposit is seen on the surface of the spleen.  The lumen is filledwith bile and revealed no tumour.  No stones are identified within the lumen.  Two lymph nodes are identified near the neck of the gallbladder measuring 4mm and 5mm in diameter.  
(13&14 two representative sections of the gallbladder; 15 lymph nodes adjacent to the neck of the gallbladder).
Omentum measures 520x160x30mm.  Almost the entire surface is firm and glistening.  Slicing through these areas reveal mucinous deposits within the fat.  
(16&17 two representative sections of the omentum).
Also received is a piece of peritoneal tissue measuring 370x210x20mm.  There are multiple areas of glistening mucinous deposits.  Multiple fragments of peritoneal tissue present measure and aggregate of 200x210x50mm.  There are glistening areas of tumour deposits present on the peritoneal surface.  
(18-20 three representative sections of the deposit).  RS (M-20/GB/ank)
 
MICROSCOPIC (Z Yocum)
Sections show mucinous tumour comprising of extracellular lakes of dissecting mucin associated with mucin secreting epithelium with moderateand, in areas, severe dysplasia in keeping with well differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma.  Small areas of non-mucinous tumour with desmoplastic stroma are also seen.  The mucinous carcinoma is seen to involve omentum, peritoneal fragments, serosa of gallbladder and serosa of appendix.  
Sections through the appendix show lumen distended by mucin which, in one area, is seen to dissect through the appendiceal wall.  The appendix shows an incomplete lining ofmucin secreting epithelium with moderate (intermediate grade) dysplasia.   No destructive tumour growth is seen through the appendix wall.  
Sections through the spleen show acellular mucin attached to the capsule.  No extension into splenic parenchyma is present.  
Eight lymph nodes examined from the right hemicolectomy specimen and two lymph nodes attached to the gallbladder show reactive changes.  
COMMENT
The appendiceal mucinous neoplasm is best described as a low grade mucinous neoplasm of appendix.  There is therefore, discordance between the appendiceal mucinous neoplasm and the disseminated well differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma in the peritoneal cavity.
DIAGNOSIS
- WELL DIFFERENTIATED MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA INVOLVING OMENTUM, PERITONEUM, GALLBLADDER SEROSA AND APPENDICEAL SEROSA.  
- ASSOCIATED APPENDICEAL LOW GRADE MUCINOUS NEOPLASM.  
(SEE COMMENT)
12.9.59lh 

