
Episode No:  90N030156M
9050301.PQM

Arturo, CHRISTI 
Lab No:  90N03015
Hamlin
NOWRA  QLD  2765
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  28/7/2004
Sex:  M
Collected: 21/09/2062 at 12:00
Location:  UROLOGY OPD-SUNSHINE HOSPITAL
PRO LAILA Antonio DEBENHAM
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
Recurrent appendix cancer.
Small bowel.
Large bowel.
Distal stomach.
MACROSCOPIC:  
"DISTAL STOMACH + SMALL BOWEL". A portion of distal stomach, one segment  of small and two segments of large bowel. Also present are multiple fatty pieces of peritoneum with mucinous tumour present. The piece of distalstomach measures 65x45mm with circumferences of 130 and 70mm. The anatomy of the stomach has been deformed by a large solid tumour nodule on one serosal surface measuring 30mm in length and 27mm in circumference.  The remainder of the serosal surface is unremarkable.  The stomach mucosa is erythematous underlying the serosal nodule but otherwise unremarkable.  Suture lines removed and cut surface inked in blue. The serosal nodule extends to within 3mm from the proximal margin.  Cut surface of the nodule removed reveals a multinodular mucinous tumour appearing to abut and possibly invade into the muscularis propria of the stomach.
(1 LS through proximal resection margin; 2-4 full face of section through nodule and underlying stomach including closest extent of tumour to distal resection margin in block 2; 5&6 further sections through tumour)
Small bowel - One piece of small bowel is present.  It measures 130mm in length and 60mm in circumference.  There is a small amount of attached mesentery measuring 15mm in length.  Mucosa is unremarkable. The serosal surface has occasional roughened areas. Near one end of the bowel is a pale, rounded nodule measuring 20x15mm on the serosal surface.  Cut surface demonstrates a pale lesion appearing to have either invaded or replaced the muscularis propria.  It comes to 12mm from the resection margin.
(7 LS through both margins; 8-10RS of nodule near one margin and roughened serosal edges)
Large Bowel - Two segments of large bowel are present. The larger measures 55mm in length and 70mm in circumference.  The smaller measures 25mm in length and 70mm in circumference.  Both segments of bowel have areas of roughened serosa. The larger segment of bowel has an area of erythema measuring 13x11mm in the centre of its length and a rounded dark red brown polyp appearing to be haemorrhagic measuring 6mm in diameter present lying 12mm from the nearest resection margin.  The remainder of the mucosa is unremarkable.  ? Three lymph nodes are found in the mesocolon surrounding the larger piece of bowel.  Cut surface of the mucosa ofthe smaller piece of bowel reveals a submucous haemorrhage measuring 11x12mm. The remainder of the mucosa is unremarkable.  
(11 LS through margins of larger piece of bowel including haemorrhagic polyp in one LS and erythematous area of mucosa in the other; 12&13 RS of roughened serosal surface from the larger bowel; 14 ? three lymph nodes from around larger bowel; 15 LS through smaller segment of bowel showing both resection margins and haemorrhagic area; 16two RS of roughened serosal areas of smaller piece of bowel)
The separate pieces of fat, peritoneum and tumour range in size from 20mm in maximal extent to 11x55x20mm. They measure in aggregate 80x90x30mm.  Cut surface demonstrates multiple deposits of mucinous tumour admixed amongst the fat and fibrous tissue.
(17-20 RS of tissue).  RS (M-20)
B.  "COELIAC LYMPH NODE".  One fatty lymph node measuring 26x16x8mm.
(1-3 TS through lymph node).  RS (M-3/AH/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:  (X Klase)
A. Sections of the specimen of stomach show gastric acid secreting and antral stomach. The mucosa appears unremarkable.  On the serosal surface there are prominent extracellular mucin pools with relatively low cellularity in which strips of columnar mucinous epithelium are seen.  Some of these strips show low grade nuclear cytology and others show intermediate grade cytology including vesicular chromatin with nucleoli and nuclear shape and membrane irregularities.  No definite infiltration of muscularis propria is seen.  Sections of the proximal margin are unremarkable. Sections of the distal margin show mucinous tumour on the serosal surface abutting the distal margin.   
Sections of the segment of small bowel show normal mucosa.  On the serosal surface there are adhesions and extracellular mucin pools. There are also zones inwhich columnar mucinous epithelium grows on the serosal surface but without extracellular mucin pools. In this region there is multilayering including stratification with papillary tufting and intermediate grade nuclear cytology.  Tumouris not seen at the resection margin in the sections examined.  
Sections of both segments of large bowel show serosal adhesions.  On the serosa of the smaller segment there is also extracellular mucin.  Both segments show submucosal and mucosal haemorrhage including a "polypoid" zone of haemorrhage in the larger specimen and these presumably reflect surgery related change.
Sections of the separate fragments of adipose tissue and peritoneum show prominent extracellular mucin deposits that vary from area to area in degree of cellularity.  Strips and groups and glandular formations of columnar mucinous epithelium are identified and these show varying cytology from low to intermediategrade.  Focally, glandular formations are seen in fibroblastic stroma without intervening mucin.  
B. The sections of the lymph node show reactive changes only.
Comment : The sections show low to intermediate grade cytologic changes in the mucinous tumour of peritoneum and this is consistent with the previous diagnosis of mucinous adenocarcinoma.  There is pseudomyxoma peritonei clinical pattern.  
 

DIAGNOSIS:  
STOMACH, SMALL AND LARGE BOWEL AND PERITONEUM -
-INTERMEDIATE GRADE MUCINOUS TUMOUR CONSISTENT WITH MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA - SEE TEXT.
25/9/62 ank

