
Episode No:  01J9538891
0139538.VZD

SIMPLOT, FLORENTINO 
Lab No:  01J95388
Deernolm
NURIOOTPA  Tasmania  6849
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  3/8/2020
Sex:  F
Collected: 13/02/2065 at 14:30
Location:  DOMAIN AGED CARE RM 2-WYALONG HOSPITAL
PRO ROYCE Jimmie Cooks
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
HISTORY:
?Ovarian cancer. ?PMP, Peritonectomy, huge cystic massa at pelvic (mucous tumour). Rectosigmoid, uterus, ovaries, right colon, gallbladder, peritoneum, omentum. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A. "OMENTUM, GALLBLADDER, UTERUS, RECTUM, RIGHT COLON, PERITONEAL DISEASE, SMALL BOWEL". Consists of omentum, gallbladder, uterus, right colon and another segment of large bowel peritoneal disease. The specimen contains right hemicolectomy, gallbladder, pieces of peritoneum and rectosigmoid segments. Within the rectosigmoid segment there is anastomosis, presumably within the proximal part of the segment. Rectosigmoid segment measures 300mm in length with a circumference of up to 60mm. There is an anastomosis at the proximal part of the specimen on the serosal surface of the bowel there is a large area which appears haemorrhagic and mucinous. This area measures 200x120mm. The right hemicolectomy specimen measures 230mm in length with length of the terminal ileum being 140mm and the length of the large colon being 100mm. There are no lesions seen within the lumen of the bowel on the serosal surface. The circumference of terminal ileum is 35mm and the circumference of the large bowel is up to 80mm. There is no appendix. There is also in the bucket fibrous piece of tissue measuring 150x100x3mm. There are no obvious depositions of mucin seen within the pieces of tissue. There is also gallbladder found in the bucket measuring 65x25x10mm. The gallbladder is empty.The serosa of the gallbladder is smooth and shiny. The mucosa is velvety. 
(1-6 rectosigmoid [1 proximal surgical margin, 3-6 RS of the mucin deposition on the serosal surface of the bowel]; 7-11 right hemicolectomy [7 proximalsurgical margin, 9 section through the appendiceal orifice, 8 one lymph node sectioned transversely, 11 one lymph node bisected]; 12&13 RS of the fibrous piece of tissue probably peritoneum; 14-16 gallbladder [14 proximal surgical margin, 15 TS of the body, 16 LS of the fundus]).
B. "OMENTUM, GALLBLADDER, UTERUS, RECTUM, RIGHT COLON, PERITONEAL DISEASE, SMALL BOWEL". It contains uterus, omentum and pieces of mucin. The uterus measures 110x70x55mm. Itweighs 185g. The endometrium measures up to 2mm in thickness and the myometrium measures up to 2mm in thickness and the myometrium measures up to 25mm in thickness. The presumed anterior surgical margin is inked blue, the posterior is black. The serosal surface of the posterior uterus appears uneven. There is a piece of omentum in container measuring 160x110x40mm. There are no obvious depositions of tumour seen within the omentum. There is one fibrous piece of tissue measuring 40x30x20mm. There are multiple pieces of mucin. 
(1 anterior cervix; 2 posterior cervix; 3 anterior body; 4 posterior body; 5 anterior fundus; 6 posterior fundus; 7-9 RS from the uneven surface of the fundus of the uterus; 10&12 RS of the omentum; 13&14 RS of the fibrous piece of tissue; 15-18 RS of the mucin). RS (M-18).
C. "OMENTUM, GALLBLADDER, UTERUS, RECTUM, RIGHT COLON, PERITONEAL DISEASE, SMALL BOWEL". Contains only mucin. There are a few more solid piece of tissue identified in the bucket which on the section appear multicystic and contain mucin. RS (M-5/SS/ht).
MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr B Panzer)
A,B&C.Sections show mucinous tumour comprising of extracellular lakes of mucin associated with moderately atypical mucin secreting epithelium. In some areas there is desmoplastic stroma in keeping with well differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma.
The mucinous tumour is seen to involve the mesentery of the rectosigmoid where it is also attached to a segment of small bowel. The surgical margins of resection of the rectosigmoid are clear of tumour. 
Sections through the right hemicolectomy specimen show fibrous adhesions on the serosal surface and otherwise no significant abnormality. Local lymph nodes examined show reactive changes. 
Sections through the gallbladder show changes of chronic cholecystitis without evidence of tumour.
Section through the separately submitted fibrous tissue fragments from specimen A show fibrosis with foreign body giant cell reactionin keeping with previous surgery and no evidence of tumour. 
The cervix shows no significant abnormality. 
The endometrium shows mild proliferative activity. 
The myometrium shows deep adenomyosis. Serosal endometriotic deposits are noted on the surface of the uterus. Possible acellular mucin is also noted on the surface of the uterus. 
The omentum shows no significant abnormality. 
Separately submitted fragments of fibrous tissue shows deposits of well differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma with desmoplastic stroma. 
The omentum shows no significant abnormality. 
Sections through the separately submitted mucus fragments in specimen Band in specimen C show multicystic mucinous tumour with moderately atypical epithelium that may represent involvement of ovaries although no definite ovarian cortical tissue is identified. 
DIAGNOSIS:
OMENTUM, GALLBLADDER, UTERUS, RECTUM, RIGHT COLON, PERITONEAL DISEASE AND SMALL BOWEL:
 -EXTENSIVE INVOLVEMENT BY MUCINOUS TUMOUR WHICH IN AREAS HAS DESMOPLASTIC STROMA BEST CLASSIFIED AS WELL DIFFERENTIATED MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA (SEE TEXT).
19/2/65 ht

