 7183899.KNZ
Mons, LEANORA
71V38993

Last edited : 13/8/2064		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Right hemiliver.  Station 16 lymph node.  Hilar lymph node.  Left intra biliary ductal tumour.  ?cholangiocarcinoma.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right hepatectomy", consists of a right hemihpatectomy measuring 180 x 120 x 80mm.  The capsule of the liver appears smooth.  The hilar surgical margin is inked blue and measures 130 x 60mm in area.  At the surgical margin the common bile duct segment measures 40mm in length x 10mm in maximum dimension.  The majority of the cystic duct has been removed. The common hepatic duct measures approximately 50mm in length x 12mm in maximum dimension.  The common bile duct has a tumour occluding the lumen measuring 10mm in maximum dimension. The tumour extends into the common hepatic duct, along a length of approximately 35mm.  The bilary tree at the porta hepatis is filled with thick inspissated cream material.There are numerous intrahepatic tumour deposits which appear bounded by pale fibrous walls at the inferior right liver measuring approximately 2 to 12mm in maximum dimension.  The liver away this appears unremarkable. There are lymphnodes around the common bile duct which measure approximately 5 to 30mm in maximum dimension.    
Blocks: 1 - shave of common bile duct margin; 2 to 6 - transverse section through common bile duct at approximately 5mmintervals; 7 - shave of cystic duct stump; 8 and 9 - transverse section through common hepatic duct at 5mm intervals; 10 and 11- paired blocks, bile duct tumour near origin of common hepatic duct and liver parenchyma;12 to 16 - representative sections of intrahepatic tumour; 17 - representative normal liver; 18 - tumour for biobanking; 19 to 33 - extra sections of tumour.     
B.  Specimen labelled "Station 16 lymph node", consists of a 14mm lymph node serially sectioned and AE 1 block. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Coeliac hilar lymph node", consists of a grey fibrofatty piece of tissue measuring 110 x 45 x 10mm.  Lymph nodes are identified ranging from 20 x 35mm in maximum dimension.  Lymph nodes are AE.
Blocks: 1 - one lymph node serially sectioned; 2 - one lymph node serially sectioned; 3 one lymphnode serially sectioned; 4 - one lymph node serially sectioned; 5 and 6 - one lymph node serially sectioned.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Left duct tumour", consists of multiple fragments of grey tan tissue measuringfrom 2 to 20mm in maximum dimension.  The cut surface shows a sclerotic cream surface.  Specimen AE 2 blocks. 
Blocks: 1 - tumour fragments; 2 - larger tumour piece serially sectioned.  
(TO: WX;UB/vo 1.5.65 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr T Kaltenhauser):
A. Sections show extensive intraductal papillary neoplasm, involving the common bile duct to the intrahepatic bile ducts.  The lesion has a complex papillary architecture, and is composed of papillae lined by tumour cells showing predominantly low grade dysplasia.  Focal areas of progression to highgrade dysplasia and carcinoma in situ are seen.
Within the common hepatic duct and the intrahepatic bile ducts, there are at least 10 deposits of moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, up to 6mm in size (A12), arising from intraductal papillary neoplasm. 
Multifocal lymphovascular invasion is present.
The invasive tumour is confined to the bile ducts. No invasion into liver or peribiliary connective tissue is seen. 
The invasive lesion is 40mm clear of the common bile duct margin.
Intraductal papillary neoplasm with low grade dysplasia is present at common bile duct margin (A1).
Two peribiliary lymphnodes show no evidence of malignancy.
The uninvolved liver shows patchy fibrous expansion of the portal tracts with focal portal-portal bridging. Mild interface activity and inflammation are seen in the portal tracts. diPAS, rhodanine and Perls stains are unremarkable.
B. Sections show 1 lymph node with no evidence of malignancy.
C. Sections show 5 lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy.
D. Sections show intraductal papillary neoplasm with variable low to high grade dysplasia. Tumour distorted by granulation tissue is seen in areas of ulceration. No definite invasion is seen.
COMMENT:
Although the invasive tumour is confined to the bile ducts, the presence of multifocal tumour in the intrahepatic biliary tree would be in keeping with pT2b (Multiple tumours, with or without lymphovascular invasion, AJCC 7th Ed.).
DIAGNOSIS:
A to C. Right hepatectomy, station 16 lymph node, coeliac hilar lymph node: 
- Multifocal (at least 10 deposits of) moderately to poorly differentiated cholangiocarcinoma, up to 6mm in size, involving the intrahepatic to common hepatic bile ducts, arising from extensive intraductal papillary neoplasm 
-Invasive tumour confined to bile ducts (pT2b, see comment)
- Multifocal lymphovascular invasion 
- Invasive tumour well clear of margins
- Intraductal papillary neoplasm with low grade dysplasia present at common bile ductmargin.
- 8 lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy
D. Left duct contents: Intraductal papillary neoplasm with high grade dysplasia, no definite invasive tumour seen

