
 6587302.AIF
Bufton, Patrick
65W73020

Last edited : 27/1/2065		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Distal oesophageal tumour.  Neo-adjuvant radiation (partial response).  ?adeno-sarcoma.  Carinal lymph node, oesophageal cancer.  Ivor Lewis. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Distal oesophageal tumour", consists of a segment of oesophagus and attached proximal part of stomach.  The oesophagus measures 140mm in length x 70mm in open dimension.  The proximal part of stomach measures 40 x 240mm in opendiameter.  There is an exophytic raised abnormal area at the cardio-oesophageal junction over an area of 60 x 52mm, which is covered by glandular and squamous mucosa with focal ulceration.  This abnormal area is 25mm from the proximal surgical margin (distal oesophagus) and approximately 45mm from the distal surgical margin (gastric fundus).  The entire abnormal area/cardio-oesophageal junction is all embedded.  Multiple lymph nodes are seen within the peri oesophagus of tissue.  
Blocks: 1 to 18 - upper part of abnormal area AE; 19 to 36 - lower part of abnormal AE; 37 - proximal surgical margin; 38 - distal surgical margin; 39 - representative fundus away from cardio-oesophageal junction; 40 to 45 - lymph nodes are seen.
B.  Specimen labelled "Carinal lymph node", consists of two piecesof fibrofatty tissue containing a lymph node each measuring 3 and 5mm in maximum dimension.  Specimen AE in 1 block.  (JN/vo 22.1.65)     
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr R Jover):
A.  Sections of cardio-oesophageal junction show extensive intestinal metaplasia and mucosa ulceration, in keeping with Barrett's oesophagus.  Focally, there is high grade dysplasia.  One small focus of residual adenocarcinoma is present within the submucosa in the block A31.  The tumour is poorly differentiated composed of tumour cells in small sheets and islands with minimal glandular formation.  There is near complete response to the neoadjuvent therapy.  The area surrounding the tumour shows extensive fibrosis, in keeping with previous therapy.  There isno lymphovascular or perineural invasion.  The tumour appears completely excised. 
B.  One (1) lymph node is identified.  The lymph nodeis unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:  Cardio-oesophageal junction
Maximum tumour diameter:  60mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  25mm (proximal margin)
Tumour perforation:  No

Microscopic Description

Tumour site (location):  Cardio-oesophageal junction

Type
Adenocarcinoma of intestinal type.
Growth pattern:  Infiltrating
Differentiation by predominant area
Poorly
Maximal dimension of tumour:  2mm

Local invasion
pT1	Limited to submucosa
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:  Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not involved
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  8.5mm (block A31)
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:  15 (including specimen A & B)
Number of lymph nodes involved:  0
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
The gastric mucosa is unremarkable.  No Helicobacter like organisms are seen.
	Several necrotizing granulomas are present within the peri-oesophageal soft tissue.  No micro-organisms are seen.

