
Episode No:  71T1941840
7171941.VLB

Alaimo, TOMIKO 
Lab No:  71T19418
Spectacle Pond
BAIRNSDALE  NT  6171
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  30/3/2004
Sex:  M
Collected: 15/02/2065 at 14:20
Location:  ANTENATAL WARD-DELORAINE DISTRICT HOSPITAL AND COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICES
PRO Antonietta DIEGO Rochlitz
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
Performed for colorectal cancer.  Peritoneal disease large mass at hepatic flexure involving GB and duodenum. ?(---illegible) primary. Primary in sigmoid. 
- Stomach
- Duodenum
- GB
- R colon
- Sigmoid
- Omentum.
MACROSCOPIC:  
"ANTERIOR RESECTION, BOWEL, LIVER, GALLBLADDER". Specimen consists of anterior resection of rectosigmoid, right hemicolectomy, gallbladder, pyloris with duodenum, segment of small bowel and a piece of mesentery. 
The segment of stomach with duodenum measures 65mm in length with diameter of the stomach measuring up to 45mm. The diameter of the duodenum up to 25mm. There are no obvious lesions seen within the specimen. Representative sections are taken and embedded. 
(1&2 longitudinal section of the proximal surgical margin; 3&4 longitudinal section of the distal surgical margin).
There is segment of small bowel measuring 160mm in length, with diameter up to 20mm. Representative sections are taken and embedded.
(5 margin one; 6 margin two, longitudinal section; 7 representative section of the specimen).
There is a gallbladder in a bucket which is disrupted, measuring 80x40x40mm. There is one gallstone found in the bucket, probably coming from the gallbladder measuring 35x20x22mm. The serosa of the gallbladder is dull and dusky which appears uneven. On the section, the wall of the gallbladder is very thick measuringupto 17mm in places. On the section, there wall is pale white and firm and probably involved by the tumour, mostly affecting the proximal part of the gallbladder. Representative sections are taken and embedded.
(8 section ofthe proximal surgical margin; 9-12 full face of the body of the gallbladder; 13&14 another representative section of the gallbladder; 15 longitudinal section of the fundus of the gallbladder; 16&17 lymph node attached to the proximal surgical margin of the gallbladder; 16 one lymph node bisected; 17 one lymph node bisected).
There is right hemicolectomy measuring 280mm in length with the length of terminal ileum measuring 90mm. The circumference of the terminal ileum is up to 40mm and the circumference of the large bowel is up to 75mm. There is appendix measuring 50mm in length with diameter up to 7mm which appears normal. There are small tumour nodules identified in the mesentery. There areno obvious mass lesions seen within the mucosa of the bowel. There is uneven area of the serosal surface of the bowel, measuring 50x30mm. There is large deposit of tumour identified within the mesentery of the caecum, which measures 25mmin diameter. There are also nine lymph nodes identified measuring from 4 up to 6mm in maximal extent. Representative sections are taken and embedded.
(18 longitudinal section of proximal surgical margin; 19 longitudinal section of the distal surgical margin; 20&21 depositions of tumour within the mesentery; 22&23 uneven area on the serosal surface of the bowel, possible tumour invasion; 24-26 appendix; 27 mass in the mesentery; 28 five lymph nodes; 29 four lymph nodes).
There is a piece of mesentery in the bucket measuring 30x100x30mm. There are no obvious deposits of tumour identified within the omentum. Representative sections are taken and embedded in three blocks.
(30-32 representative sections of the omentum).
There is anterior resection measuring 350mm in length. There is no obvious peritoneal reflection identified within the specimen. The circumference of the large bowel measures up to 100mm. There is a tumour with a stamp identified within the specimen. The tumour measures about 95mm in length and appears circumferential. The tumour is located 45mm from the presumed distal surgical margin, about 210mm from the proximal surgical margin. The tumour appears to involve the full thickness of the wall of the bowel with involvement of the serosal surface. The distance from the tumour to the radial surgical margin is about 20mm. There are two deposits oftumour seen on the peritoneal surface. 
(33 longitudinal section of proximal surgical margin; 34 distal surgical margin; 35-38 representative sections of the bowel of the tumour; 39 longitudinal section of the proximal part of tumour with longitudinal section of the distal part of the tumour; 40 irregular mucosa, 41&42 deposition of tumour on the peritoneal surface of the mesentery; 43 four lymph nodes; 44 three lymph nodes; 45 one lymph node sectioned transversely).
B. "SPLENIC CYST". Consists of one piece of cystic tissue measuring 7mm in maximal extent. Bisected and embedded in one block. AE (2-1/ SS/cy)
MACROSCOPIC FINDINGS SUMMARY
Operation type:  Anterior resection (?high)
Specimen length:350mm
Tumour site:  Sigmoid colon
Tumour size:  25mmfrom margins:  
Proximal:  210mm
Distal:  45mm
Radial:  20mm
Perforation:  Absent

MICROSCOPIC    (Dr. S. Hitzfelder)
A. Histology reveals the presence of a primary gallbladder adenocarcinoma with focal areas of squamous differentiation.  There is marked thickening of the wall of the gallbladder with widespread infiltration by a tumour which shows a predominance of glandular differentiation comprising small acinar structures with some solid areas and occasional single cells ie moderately to poorly differentiated.  In places, there are also small foci of squamous differentiation within the wall of the gallbladder.  Foci of high grade dysplasia are seen within the mucosa of the gallbladder.  Adenoarcinoma infiltrates through the full thickness of the gallbladder wall where there is dense desmoplasia, with multiple metastatic deposits of carcinoma within small bowel, terminal ileum, duodenum colon and the sigmoid.  The stomach is not involved. Within the sigmoid, there is transmural infiltration with ulceration of the mucosa with lymphatic vascular invasion.  Widespread perineural infiltration is also a feature in all of metastatic and primary sites.  Multiple deposits are also seen within the mesentery.  The appendix is not involved.  The appendix does however contain a small mucosal sessile serrated adenoma.  No malignancy is seen within two cystic duct lymph nodes adjacent to the gallbladder, nor within ten lymph nodes found within the small bowel mesentery.   Three of eleven pericolic lymph nodes contain small deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma.  Immunostains performed on the tumour within the gallbladder and sigmoid colon show similar morphology and immunoprofile with positivity for cytokeratin 7 and negativity for cytokeratin 20 and CDX2.  This immunoprofile is again consistent with a primary gallbladder adenocarcinoma.
B.  Histology shows a collapsed benign cystic structure formed by fibrous connective tissue walls with a small amount of residualsplenic parenchyma.  Immunostains show positivity for cytokeratin and WT1 consistent with a benign mesothelial inclusion cyst.  There is no evidence of malignancy.    
DIAGNOSIS
A.  ANTERIOR RESECTION BOWEL, LIVER, GALLBLADDER -
- PRIMARY ADENOCARCINOMA OF GALLBLADDER WITH METASTATIC CARCINOMA INVOLVING DUODENUM, SMALL BOWEL, SIGMOID, MESENTERY & OMENTUM.
B.  SPLENIC CYST - BENIGN SPLENIC CYST.  
21/2/2065 nh

