Episode No:  29P125242K
295125.GKG

Passini, Jarrah ROY 
Lab No:  29P12524,29P12524
N Walkup
GLENBROOK  NT  5109
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  4/11/1980
Sex:  F
Collected: 25/05/2065 at 17:24
Location:  ACT Genetic - SINGLETON DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR Erwin Konek
Distribution:  DR JAIME,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Total laparoscopic hysterectomy.  Grade 2 endometrial cancer.  AF, HT, NIDDM, high chol.  Endometrial cancer.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, tubes and ovaries" consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 47g in total.  The uterus and cervix were received opened.  The uterus measures 70x 40 x 20mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 15 x 15mm and has an unremarkable surface.  The posterior uterus and cervix are inked blue.  On sectioning, the endometrium is 2mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 8mm in maximum thickness.  Small prominent blood vessels are noted in the myometrium; the myometrium is otherwise unremarkable.  The right fallopian tube measures 59mm in length with a diameter up to 5mm.  The right ovary measures 20 x 15 x 10mm and is partly calcified.  The left fallopian tube measures 50mm in length with a diameter up to 5mm.  The left ovary measures 28 x 16 x 15mm and is partially cystic.  RS 21 blocks.  
Blocks:  1 to 8 - sequential LS anterior uterus and cervix from left to right; 9 to 14 - sequential LS posterior uterus and cervix from right to left; 15 - LS complete right fimbrial end fallopiantube, plus mid TS; 16 & 17 - complete right ovary (decalcified); 18 - LS complete left fallopian tube fimbrial end, plus mid TS; 19 to 21 - complete left ovary.  Please refer to block diagram.
B.  Specimen labelled "Left cervical margin" consists of an irregularly shaped, cauterised, grey piece of tissue measuring 33 x 18 x 12mm.  Serially sectioned.  AE 9 blocks (piece in block 9 is fragmented).
(TO: CV:  IG/mm 27.5.65) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr H Fielden/Dr H Nierenberg)
A.  The entire endometrium is embedded.  There are two microscopic foci, consistent with residual endometrioid adenocarcinoma, each approximately 1mm across (Block A6 and A13).  No myometrial invasion is identified andthe cervix is uninvolved.  These foci are composed of closely opposed endometrial glands lined by cells with round nuclei, vesicular chromatin and occasional nucleoli. One of the foci also contains intraluminal acute inflammatory cells.Formal grading is unreliable, given the small size of the foci, but the appearances match those described in Dr H Herzing's report of the previous endometrial curetting specimen (DAY SURGERY UNIT Pathology H95/12524).  Dr Caldera reportedthat there was scant endometrioid adenocarcinoma composed of back to back glands with grade 2 and focally grade 3 nuclei amounting to an overall grade of 2.  Elsewhere there is a small polyp containing mildly crowded glands showing some tubal differentiation but no cytological atypia consistent with a focus of complex hyperplasia without cytological atypia within a polyp. The remaining endometrium is inactive.  There are endometrial stromal haemosiderin-laden macrophagesas well as focal superfical organisation consistent with previous surgical procedure.   There is prominent calcification within the myometrial blood vessel walls.
The cervix is unremarkable.  Both ovaries show senescent changes.  The left ovary contains a unilocular cyst lined by flattened epithelium overlying a dense fibrous wall, consistent with a benign simple serous cyst.   The fallopian tubes show no significant abnormality.
Selected slides shown to Dr H Tuohy who concurs.
B.  The entire specimen has been embedded.  The sections show dense fibrovascular tissue.  A scant amount of stratified squamous epithelium is seen at one edge.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries:
-  Microscopic foci of residual non-invasive endometrioid adenocarcinoma (see text regarding grade)
-  Small endometrial polyp with focal complex hyperplasia without cytological atypia.
-  Benign simple serous cyst in the left ovary.
B.  Left cervical margin:  No evidence of malignancy.  

