
 619316.ANY
Landwehr, Bryce
61Y31605

Last edited : 7/3/2065		Page: 2

CLINICAL:
Retroperitoneal mass + anterior wall of duodenum (D3 - D4).
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Abdominal sarcoma", received in formalin, consists of a multi lobulated mass with areas surrounded by a smooth lined capsule, ragged soft tissue, and a strip of duodenum weighing 1.45kg in total.  The mass measures 190 x 160 x 110mm and the capsular and ragged surface is inked blue.  The strip of duodenum measures 60 x 38mm in area and has normal mucosal folds.  No polyps or lesions are seen on the bowel mucosa.  
On sectioning the mass has a variegated appearance with fibrotic/calcified stellate areas as well as small myxoid gelatinous areas.  There are areas of haemorrhage scattered throughout the tumour.  No obvious necrosisis seen.  Representative sections in 21 blocks.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - tumour and overlying small bowel; 4 to 20 - representative tumour; 21 - tumour for Bio Bank.  (TO: XI; WP/rt 18.6.65)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr R Cluesman):
Sections show liposarcoma with high grade differentiation.  There is necrosis and sclerosis involving > 80% of the lesion, in keeping with treatment effect. Focal lipoma-like areas, composed of adipose tissue and scattered atypical spindled shaped tumour cells and lipoblasts are seen (block 7). Approximately 10% of the lesion shows high grade dedifferentiation, composed of fascicles of highly atypical spindled shaped tumour cells (block 13). Up to 21 mitoses are present per 10 hpf. No lymphvascular invasion is seen.
The lesion has invaded into the muscularis propria and the submucosa of the duodenum. The duodenal mucosa is unremarkable.
Sclerosed tumour with treatment effect is seen at the duodenal margin (block 2) and soft tissue margin (e.g. block 19).
High grade tumour is 11mm from the nearest soft tissue margin (block 13).
DIAGNOSIS:
Retroperitoneal mass and anterior wall of duodenum:
	Liposarcoma with high grade dedifferentiation, extensive treatment effect present
	Sclerosed tumour with treatment effect at duodenal and soft tissue margin
	High grade sarcoma clear of margins


