Episode No:  98H069023J
983069.AGK

Capriola, MARION THOMASENA 
Lab No:  98H06902,98H06902
Paul Poole
ARARAT  VIC  3610
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  26/12/1997
Sex:  F
Collected: 06/11/2065 at 18:00
Location:  GOVE DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR ANIBAL Swihart
Distribution:  DR COLEMAN,    FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
Peritoneal washings for cytology.
Right ovary, tubesand omentum.
Right pelvic node.
Bowel and vagina.
Gastric nodule.
Omentum.
Left paracolic.
Descending colon.  
Diaphragm nodules.
Left and right diaphragm lining.
Donut bowel.
Pelvic mass.
MACROSCOPIC:  
A.  "RIGHT OVARY + TUBE + OMENTUM".  Two nodules with attached fatty tissue.  Nodule 1 appears partially papillary, partially pale white and are multicystic.  It measures 90x75x60mm.  It is attached to the second nodule attachedfirmly. The second nodule is pale white and smooth.  It measures 65x55x50mm.  The whole specimen weighs around 364g. There is no obvious tube identified within the specimen. The second nodular piece of tissue is probably ovary.  Specimenwas sectioned transversely and partially necrotic.  Representative sections are taken and embedded.  RS (M-15)
B.  "RIGHT PELVIC NODES". Two pieces of fatty tissue measuring 25mm in maximum extent each.  First piece of tissue embedded in block 1, second piece of tissue is bisected in block 2).  AE (M-2)
C.  "BOWEL AND VAGINA".  Segment of large bowel measuring 220mm in length which appears distorted. There is possible piece of vaginal wall attached to the wall of the bowel attached with fibrous tissue. The bowel is not orientated. The margins of the bowel will be called margin 1 and margin 2.  The patch of vaginal wall measures 25x15mm and is located at 35mm from surgical margin 2 ofthe bowel. There are no obvious depositions of tumour found in the serosa of the bowel or within the lumen of the bowel.  Representative sections are taken and embedded.
(1 surgical margin 1; 2 surgical margin 2; 3-7 sections of the patch of vagina; 8 RS of the area of peritoneum which looks nodular; 9&10 RS of bowel with diverticula; 11 three lymph nodes measuring from 3-5mm in maximal extent).  RS (M-11)
D.  "GASTRIC NODULE".  Fibrous nodule measuring 8mm in maximum extent. The specimen was bisected and all embedded in one block.  AE (2-1)
E.  "OMENTUM".  Multiple pieces of fatty tissue representing omentum. The specimen measures 120x120x70mm.  In aggregate the specimen weighs 202g.  There are few deposition of tumour seen within the omentum measuring from 5 up to 40mm in maximal extent.  On sub examination of specimen there are only two definite depositions of tumour measuring 30 and 20mm in maximal extent.  No other lesions identified.  Representative sections are taken and embedded.
(1&2 RS from the 3cm deposition; 3&4 sections of the 4cm deposition).  RS (M-4)
F.  "LEFT PARACOLIC".  Few pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring in aggregate 70x40x15mm.  There are no obvious lesions seen within the specimen and specimen was sectioned. Representative sections are embedded in three blocks.  RS (M-3)
G.  "DESCENDING COLON". Segment oflarge bowel measuring 60mm in length with circumference up to 40mm.  There are few depositions of tumour seen within the wall of the bowel. The specimen is not orientated.  Nodule depositions are seen in the serosal surface of the bowel and within the wall of the bowel. They measure from 2 up to 10mm in maximal extent.  Representative sections are taken and embedded.
(1 margin 1; 2 margin 2; 3 sections of the largest deposition within the wall of the bowel; 4section of another deposition from the serosal surface of the bowel).  RS (M-4)
H.  "DIAPHRAGM NODULES".  Few pieces of fibrous tissue measuring in aggregate 30x25x10mm.  Piece of tissue was sectioned and in two blocks.  AE (M-2)
J.  "LEFT AND RIGHT DIAPHRAGM LINING".  Multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue.  The piece of tissue measure in aggregate 110x100x60mm.  On examination of the specimen there are multiple nodular depositions identified on the serosal lining within the specimen measuring from 1-10mm in maximal extent.  The roll is made from the serosal lining of the specimen and sectioned transversely.  Representative sections of that roll are embedded in five blocks.  RS (M-5)
K.  "DONUT BOWEL". Two donuts, one donut contains sutures, another donut contains staple line.  Donut with sutures measure 10mm in length with diameter up to 17mm.  The donut with staple line measures 15mm in length with diameter up to 20mm.  Smaller donut sutures was embedded in block 1, donut 2 was sectioned and staple removed and embedded in two blocks 2 and 3.
(1 donut 1; 2&3 donut 2).  RS (M-3/VQ/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Z. Paik)
A.  Right Ovary : 
High grade serous carcinoma arising from high grade proliferating serous tumour.  Direct extension of the tumour into attached omental fat is also present.  The fallopian tube is not identified.  Lymphovascular invasion by the carcinoma is identified.  Micrometastasis in a local lymph node is seen.
B.  Right Pelvic Nodes :
Two out of six lymph nodes show metastatic serous carcinoma.  No extranodal spread is seen.  
C.  Bowel andVagina :
Sections through the segment of large bowel show numerous mesenteric and serosal deposits of high grade serous carcinoma some of which are seen to extend into muscularis propria.  Lymphovascular invasion by the carcinoma is seen.  Direct extension into soft tissue attached to vaginal cuff is also present.  The surface squamous epithelium of the vaginal cuff shows no significant abnormality.  Two local lymph nodes examined show reactive changes.
The bowel resection margins appear clear of tumour.  
.  Gastric Nodule :
Deposits of high grade serous carcinoma involving fibroadipose tissue and smooth muscle tissue.  
E.  Omentum :
Deposits of high grade serous carcinoma including numerous psammoma bodies.  
F.  Left Paracolic :
Deposits of high grade serous carcinoma.
G.  Descending Colon :
Deposits of high grade serous carcinoma involving serosa, muscularis and submucosa with unremarkable surface mucosa.  The surgical margins of resection are clear of any lesion.  
H,J,  Diaphragm Nodules and Left and Right Diaphragm Lining :
Numerous deposits of high grade serous carcinoma with psammoma bodies.  Involvement of skeletal muscle is also seen.  
K.  Donut Bowel :
Unremarkable colonic wall and mucosa with no evidence of tumour.
DIAGNOSIS:  
DISSEMINATED INTRA-ABDOMINAL HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA PRESUMABLY ARISING FROM RIGHT OVARY.
17/6/65 ank

