Episode No:  90C343398N
9003433.YVN

Thulin, VAUGHN 
Lab No:90C34339
Miggins
CLIFTON SPRINGS  QLD  5422
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  16/8/2027
Sex:  M
Collected: 07/02/2065 at 13:57
Location:  SEALSCentral-KOOWEERUP REGIONAL HEALTH SERVICE
DR RICO TIMIKA Leavelle
Distribution:  DR JON
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (14.7.65):


CLINICAL:
Malignant hypertension during eye op 2wks ago, leading to cardiac failure and pulmonary oedema.  Large phaeochromocytomain right adrenal gland.  HTN.  Smoker.  Consent for Biobank.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right adrenal tumour suture superior", consists of an adrenal gland 48 x 19 x 14mm, with an inferiorly located tumour 80 x 70 x 48mm.  The complete specimen weighs 90g.  A suture marks superior.  The superior half of the specimen is inked blue and the inferior half black.  The specimen is sectioned into thirteen approximately equal slices (4 to 5mm thickness each).  The cut surface of the tumour has partly solid and partly cystic tan/orange appearance.  RS 18 blocks. 
Blocks: 1 - slice one; 2 to 5 - composite slice four; 6 to 11 - composite slice seven; 12 to 15 - composite slice ten; 16 - superior portion of slice twelve; 17 & 18 - composite slice thirteen.  Please refer to attached photo/block diagram.  
(TO: AQ;VB/ta 7/3/65) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr X Ganley): 
Sections show adrenal with a circumscribed tumour.  This consists of nests, cords and trabeculae of cells with large, pleomorphic nuclei and rather abundant amphophilic, finely granular cytoplasm.  Some of the nuclei are hyperchromatic and have a single nucleolus and occasional cells have very large, highly atypical hyperchromatic nuclei.  Occasional cells have granular brown cytoplasmic pigment consistent with lypofuscin.  Some hyaline globules are also noted (block 4).  There is a network of small vessels between the nests and trabeculae of tumour cells.  Some small muscular vessels within the tumour have organising thrombi in their lumina.  There is some patchy cystic degeneration.  Mitoses are very infrequent and there is no tumour necrosis.  No definite lymphovascular invasion is identified.  Tumour is circumscribed and partly encapsulated but abuts the adjacent adrenal medulla and cortex.  There is no invasion into peri-adrenal fat.  Excision is complete.  Sections of the uninvolved adrenal are unremarkable.  The appearances are of a pheochromocytoma.  
Slides will be sent to BODDINGTON HOSPITAL Hospital for SDHA and SDHB staining and a supplementary report issued.  
DIAGNOSIS:  
Right adrenal:  Pheochromocytoma. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (14.7.65):
Immunostaining for SDHB and SDHA was performed at FINLEY HOSPITAL & COMMUNITY HEALTH CARE Hospital.
SDHB:  Negative
SDHA:  Negative
Comment:  The negative staining for SDHA makes SDHA mutation likely.  An SDHA mutation is most likely germline.
Reported byA/Prof X Lohman.
     

