Episode No:  81F370302U
8113703.CFU

JACOBELLIS, Roberto Laverne 
Lab No:  81F37030,81F37030
Okeover
NAROOMA  ACT  1484
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  19/6/2002
Sex:  F
Collected: 06/03/2065 at 13:01
Location:  DHM-OAKEY HOSPITAL
DR CHAS JAROD Bombino
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
Abdominal wall mass and liver nodules.  B/G:  stage 1b endometrial cancer.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Abdominal wall mass" consists of an ellipse of skin with underlying subcutis and skeletal muscle 150 x 30 x 60mm.  The epidermis is unremarkable.  Within the subcutis there is a circumscribed nodule 20 x 20 x 20mm.  The tumour is 1mm clear of the closest margin, and appears to lie immediately superficial to a layer of fascia.  No other lesions are identified.  
Blocks: 1 - skin overlying tumour; 2 & 3 - cross section through tumour (block 2 - reserveblock); 4 & 5 - cross section through tumour; 6 - tumour; 7 - uninvolved soft tissue.  Tumour AE. 
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Segment 7 with diaphragm" consists of a disc of liver, 70 x 65 x 15mm.  There is overlying adherent diaphragm, 65 x 50 x 5mm.  The specimen weighs 45g in total.  The liver resection margin is inked blue and the peripheral diaphragm margin black.  There is a circumscribed tumour nodule, 28 x 22 x 25mm, located within the diaphragm and liver.  The tumour has a smooth pushing border.  The tumour is 8mm clear of the closest peripheral diaphragm margin and 6mm clear of the liver resection margin.  The uninvolved liver appears unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 to 6 - tumour with liver and diaphragm; 7 - uninvolved liver.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Segment 4B liver nodule" consists of a wedge of liver, 22x 18 x 15mm.  Extending from the liver capsule there is a circumscribed tan nodule 8 x 6 x 5mm.  The nodule is 5mm clear of the closest margin.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - nodule.   (TO: BO; WX/ta 6/4/65) 
   
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr V Bregantini): 
A.  Sections show skin and subcutis with some underlying dense fibrous fascial tissue and skeletal muscle.  Within the subcutis there is a deposit of poorly differentiated carcinoma.  This has prominent central necrosis.  It consists mainly of sheets of cells with large, hyperchromatic nuclei and rather scant amphophilic cytoplasm.  Mitoses are very frequent.  There is some gland formation but the tumour is mainly solid.  It is consistent with metastatic mixed poorly differentiated serous and undifferentiated endometrial carcinoma, similar to the previous resected endometrial tumour (81F37030F).  The tumourhas a lobulated edge and excision is complete.  There is probable lymphovascular invasion focally.  
Immunostainsfor hormone receptors have been performed as requested.  
Oestrogen receptor:  Focal positive.  
                                  2% of tumour cells stain.  
Predominant intensity of staining:  Strong. 
Progesterone receptor:  Focal positive.  
                                       3% of tumour cells stain.  
                                       Predominant intensity of staining:  Moderate.  
B.  Sections show liver tissue with overlying dense fibrous tissue and skeletal muscle.  There is a deposit of poorly differentiated carcinoma, similar to specimen A, in the fibrous tissue and skeletal muscle.  It abuts the liver but does not invade into liver parenchyma.  There is some poorly developed gland formation but the tumour mainly consists of sheets and trabeculae of highly pleomorphic cells.  There is some tumour necrosis.  Tumour is focally very close to the inked soft tissue excisionmargin in a cleft between the liver and the overlying diaphragm (block B5).  There is at least focal lymphovascular invasion.  
A section of liver away from the mass shows only mild non-specific changes including a mild chronic inflammatory infiltrate in portal tracts and focal mild steatosis. 
C.  Sections show a wedge of liver tissue.  At theapex of the wedge there is a deposit of poorly differentiated carcinoma consistent with poorly differentiated serous carcinoma, similar to specimens A & B.  The tumour is just beneath the liver capsule and no tumour is seen on the serosal surface.  There is some tumour necrosis and there is at least focal lymphovascular invasion.  The hepatic resection margin is free of tumour.  The adjacent liver tissue shows mild non specific changes only.    
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Abdominal wall mass:  Metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.  
B.  Liver segment 7 with diaphragm:  Metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.  
C.  Segment 4B liver nodule:  Metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.   
 

