Episode No:  23N5721186
2355721.EXR

Taus, CHI 
Lab No:  23N57211,23N57211
Dorchester
MAITLAND  New South Wales  1173
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  27/3/2032
Sex:  F
Collected: 08/07/2065 at 14:12
Location:  EAST SURGICAL - TULLY HOSPITAL
DR Graig DESHAWN LAMBE
Distribution:  DR Lanny
CLINICAL:
Granulosa cell tumour, previous left cystectomy.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right ovarian surface", consists of a 4mm fragment of adipose tissue and a 5mm haemorrhagic tissue fragment. AE 1 block. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Lefttube and ovary", consists of an ovary, 45 x 35 x 25mm. There is overlying fallopian tube with fimbriae, 50mm in length.  The ovary contains a relatively well circumscribed yellow nodule, 25 x 15 x 20mm.  Block 1 - fallopian tube; 2-6 - nodule; 7 -uninvolved ovary. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Left uterosacral ligament", consists of a piece of tan tissue 20 x 15 x 5mm. TAE 1 block. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Pelvic tissue", consists of a piece of yellow tissue 6mm across. AE 1 block. 
E.  Specimen labelled "Omental biopsy", consists of a piece of omentum, 190 x 55 x 10mm.  No nodules are seen.  Representative sections in 3 blocks. 
(TO: RP/ec 9.7.65) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr F Agans/Dr F Murriel):
A.  The sections show a fragment of tissue with a central area of necrosis.  At the periphery, there is mild proliferation of bland cells within a hyalinised stroma.  Occasional nuclear grooves and clearing of the cytoplasm can be seen.  No trabecular growth pattern is present.  A separate fragment of haemorrhagic ovarian stroma is seen.
B.  The ovary contains a 25mm moderately differentiated adult granulosa cell tumour.  The tumour is composed of sheets of small cells with scant cytoplasm and characteristic nuclear grooves.  Peripheral areas of the tumour show luteinisation of the cells.  The ovary also contains some foreign body granulomas, consistent with previous surgery.  Focal psammomatous calcification is seen in the fallopian tube.  The tubal epithelium shows no significant abnormality. 
Approximately 75% of the tumour cells demonstrate moderate nuclear staining with PR, while ER is weakly positive in 10-20% of the cells.
C.  The sections show fibroadipose tissue with evidence of focal endometriosis.  There is foreign body-type granulomatous inflammation, consistent with previous surgery.  There is no evidence of tumour.
D.  The sections show a fragment of tissue with similar features to specimen A.  
E.  The omentum shows patchy reactive mesothelial hyperplasia.  There is noevidence of tumour.
COMMENT:  
There is significant resemblance between biopsies from the right ovarian surface and pelvic tissue.  They both contain smooth outline, central necrosis, and focal stromal hyalinization.  The rim of the viable cells is also of similar morphology.  The necrotic cores and peripheral cells show diffuse expression of Inhibin alpha.  There is no staining with Calretinin.  Features are suggestive of deposits from the Granulosa cell tumour of the left ovary and intraoperative spillage can not be excluded.
Case shown to Dr F Baquero.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right ovarian surface:  Features suggestive of granulosa cell tumour deposit.  See comment.
B.  Left tube and ovary:  
-  Granulosa cell tumour, 25mm.  
-  ERweakly and PR strongly positive.
-  Fallopian tube unremarkable.
C.  Left uterosacral ligament:  Focal endometriosis.  No evidence of tumour.
D.  Pelvic tissue:  Features suggestive of granulosa cell tumour deposit.  See comment.
E.  Omentum:  No significant abnormality.

