
Episode No:  34B792365G
340792.JQO

SCHMERGE, LONDA 
Lab No:  34B79236,34B79236
Halborn
CHARTERS TOWERS  VIC  6516
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  3/8/2015
Sex:  F
Collected: 15/7/2065 at :
Location:  MED/SURGERY WARD-BALRANALD MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
DR Demetrius SHARIE Lokhmatov
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Recurrent sarcoma near previous anastomosis.  Previous resection at WALCHA MULTIPURPOSE SERVICE.  Abdominal leiomyosarcoma recurrence.   

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel tumour" consists of a segment of small intestine measuring 140mm in length and 48mm in circumference.  An old stapled anastomosis is present 50mm from one end (end inked black, opposite end inked blue).  A small amount of mesentery is attached.  The serosa appears rough.  At the anastomosis site, there is a serosal tumour nodule 30 x 31 x 29mm.  The nodule has a firm pale cut surface with a small area of necrosis centrally.  The nodule is covered externally by at least 1mm of smooth fat/serosal lining.  The nodule involves the muscularis propria from its external aspect and does not appear to invade through.  The overlying small bowel mucosa appears unremarkable.  The nodule is attached at the site of previous anastomosis.  A possible appendix is identified firmly attached to the nodule, 42mm in length and 7mm in external diameter.  For a short segment, this possible appendix is incorporated into the nodule and surrounded by tumour.  A definite origin in the small bowel cannot be identified.  
Blocks: 1 - resection margin of bowel; 2 - tied margin of possible appendix (not tip) TS; 3 - nodule with overlying fat; 4 & 5 - nodule involving muscularis propria; 6 - representative nodule for tumour banking;7 - nodule and possible appendix; 8 - two lymph nodes.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Omentum nodule" consists of a smooth pale nodule measuring 12 x 9 x 7mm with a small amount of attached fatty tissue.  The nodule has a pale cut surface with entrapped fat.  BAE 1 block.
C.  Specimen labelled "Nodule anterior abdominalwall" consists of a rough yellow nodule measuring 16 x 13 x 12mm with a small amount of attached fatty tissue.  The cut surface has a variable appearance with bright yellow areas and pale and haemorrhagic areasand is firmly attached to the surrounding fat.  Some areas appear to be fat necrosis.  BAE 2 blocks.  (EZ/ta 16/7/65) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr J Strevell): 
A.  Sections of small bowel show high grade sarcoma associated with the outer fibres of muscularis propriaand extending into subserosal adipose tissue.  The lesion is relatively well circumscribed and consists of interlacing fascicles of malignant spindle cells with clear cytoplasm and oval nuclei.  Areas of coagulative necrosis are present and numerous mitoses are identified.  The tumour cells show positive staining for SMA and are negative for desmin, consistent with recurrent leiomyosarcoma.  The tumour is covered in a thin rim of adipose tissue, focally coming to within less than 0.1mm of the serosal surface.  No definite breach of the serosa is seen.  The appendix is present within the specimen however, is not involved by tumour.  No tumour is seen within the mucosa or submucosa and the surgical margins are clear.  Two lymph nodes are identified which show no significant abnormality.  
B.  Sections show leiomyosarcoma.
C.  Sections show a calcified nodule containing foamy macrophages and cholesterol clefts consistent with calcified fat necrosis.  There is no evidence of malignancy.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Small bowel:  
-  Recurrent leiomyosarcoma, margins appear clear.
-  Appendix normal. 
-  Two negative lymph nodes.
B.  Omental nodule:  Leiomyosarcoma.
C.  Nodule anterior abdominal wall:  Calcified fat necrosis.
 

