Episode No:  76K994172D
7649941.TFD

LEPEZ, Kamilaroi 
Lab No:  76K99417
Finchmead
CANOWINDRA  NT  2790
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  1/5/1999
Sex:  M
Collected: 30/7/2065 at :
Location:  DOMAIN AGED CARE RM 2-SOUTH EAST REGIONAL HOSPITAL
DR Arnold Sheree SLAGER
Distribution:  
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:  (26.8.65)

CLINICAL:
Right arm sarcoma.  (Neoadjuvant chemo radiotherapy).  Overlying posterior compartments superficial to fascia (fascia excised en bloc).  Marking suture at 12 o'clock.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Sarcoma right arm stitch 12 o'clock" and consists of an orientated ellipse of skin 110 x 100 x 50mm with a suture designating 12 o'clock.  There is a firm tumour, 55 x 45 x 45mm in maximum dimension with a pale yellow to cream whorled surface with areas of yellow ?necrosis.  Sampled for cytogenetics then placed in formalin.  The 3 o'clock surface is inked blue and the 9 o'clock black.  On sectioning the tumour is encapsulated but abuts the fascial deep surface.  Other margins are as follows:  20mm 3 o'clock, 22mm 9 o'clock, 25mm 6o'clock, 28mm 12 o'clock and abuts the superficial skin.  Representative sections.
Blocks: 1 & 2 - LS 12 o'clock margin; 3 & 4 - 9 o'clock margin 5 & 6 - tumour abutting skin; 7 & 8 - 3 o'clock margin; 9, 10 & 11 - tumour in deep margin; 12 - one LS 6 o'clock margin; 13 & 14, 15 & 16 - representative tumour; 17 - tumour for biobank.   (TO:KE; YM/ta 8/1/65) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr T Grindeland): 
Sections of skin to subcutis with some fascia at the deep aspect.  Expanding the dermis, deeply involving the subcutis and abutting the fascia is a cellular, polymorphous, pleomorphic and spindle cell lesion.  The tumour spares a very thin zone of superficial papillary dermis and superficially displays fibrohistiocytic-type architecture with dermal collagen entrapment.  There is some mild acanthosis but no basal hyperpigmentation or follicular induction.  There is no significant actinic elastosis.  The deeper two-thirds of the tumour has a relatively circumscribed profile composed of oval/polyhedral cells with bland nuclei, admixed with spindled cells, as well as pleomorphic, mononuclear and multinucleate cells.  The tumour cells are arranged in intersecting fascicles, focal storiform arrays and sheets within a collagenousmatrix rich in inflammatory cells.  The inflammatory cells include aggregates of neutrophils as well as lymphocytes and histiocytes.  Scattered foamy cells which resemble Touton giant cells are also present.  The frequent highly pleomorphic cells often display bizarre nuclei with hyperchromatic or vesicular chromatin, scattered intranuclear inclusions, frequent macronucleoli and variably pale to eosinophilic or foamy cytoplasm.  Some of these cells show neutrophil ormononuclear cell emperipolesis.  No necrosis is seen. There is patchy lymphocytic exocytosis and vacuolar interface change both above and away from the tumour, however, no intraepidermal melanocytic proliferation is identified including with SOX10 and MITF immunostains.  Mitoses are easily identified (numbering up to 5/10hpf including atypical forms).  No lymphovascular or perineural invasion is seen. 
Margins: 
The tumour abuts the deep margin and about 14mm clear of the closest radial 
(3 o'clock) margin.  
Immunohistochemistry:
The pleomorphic tumour cells stain as follows:
Positive:	Factor 13A (strong diffuse), S100 (patchy expression mainly in non-pleomorphic cells;pleomorphic cells show cytoplasmic expressio but not nuclear expression), MITF (weak predominantly within bland spindle cells but also occasional pleomorphic cells) and Vimentin
Negative:	AE1/AE3, Pan CK, p63, CK5/6, EMA, Desmin, SMA, Myogenin, SOX-10, HMB45, Melan A, C-kit, CD34, CD20, CD3, CD43, CD21, CD43, CD30, CD15 (stains granulocytes), CD1a, ALK1, CD163 and CD68 ( the latter two markers stain dominant polyhedral/oval cells and histiocytesbut not the pleomorphic cells)
The LCA is difficult to interpret.  It stains the background inflammatory cells, appears to stain some of the bland oval/polyhedral cells, but not the more pleomorphic cells.  
 
COMMENT:
The differential diagnoses considered include atypical fibrous histiocytoma, pleomorphic dermal sarcoma and malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour.  There are features including dermal involvement, storiform pattern of growth, bland oval/polyhedral cell morphology, collagen entrapment superficially as well as polymorphous morphology including inflammatory cells which favour an atypical cellular fibrous histiocytoma (pseudosarcomatous fibrous histiocytoma).  This entity, which may display bizarre pleomorphic cells and mitoses, including atypical forms, has a propensity for local recurrence (around 15%) and a very low incidence of metastasis (<2%) which is not predictable by histology.  The deep subcutaneous involvement, however, is a worrisome feature for this diagnosis and brings pleomorphic dermal sarcoma into consideration.  The latter is typical seen on the head and neck in the context of UV associated actinic damage, not seen here, but rarely may occur on the extremities.  This entity has a reported local recurrence rate of up to 30% with a metastatic rate of around 10%, the majority of which are locoregional cutaneous metastases. The S100 immunostain is difficult to interpret; while there are positive cells within the tumour the majority of these with more specific nuclear and cytoplasmic expression probably represent admixed dendritic cells.  The pleomorphic tumour cells lack nuclear expression.  However, with possible S100 expression it is difficult to entirelyexclude an anaplastic malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour which is nevertheless regarded as much less likely.  The minimal, doubtful, S100 immunoexpression by the pleomorphic cells, lack of SOX10 immunoexpression and lack of intraepidermal melanocytic proliferation are against a diagnosis of malignant melanoma. Compared to the previous core biopsy (76K99417), in which no obvious dermal component could be discerned, there is a greater degree of nuclear pleomorphism, and some areas of palisaded growth.  Some of the pleomorphism may represent treatment effect but there is no significant treatment response.  This case and the previous biopsy will be sent to Professor JONATHON Schwarzenberg at the BODDINGTON HOSPITAL's Hospital, MUDGEE for an expert opinion and a supplementary report will follow.  

DIAGNOSIS:
Right arm (excision):
-   Pleomorphic, polymorphous spindle cell lesion favour atypical fibrous histiocytoma (see comment).
-   Expert review pending; supplementary report to follow.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:  (26.8.65)
Professor Augustus Tave, ST JOSEPH'S HOSPITAL's Hospital, NARACOORTE reports:
"Your refs 76K-994 and 76K-9941.
Many thanks for asking me to look at the needle biopsy and subsequent excision (after neoadjuvant chemotherapy) of this patient's tumour on the right arm. I am returning your original stained sections and the blocks herein.
The limited needle biopsy material shows a cytologically atypical spindle cell neoplasm. In the more formal excision, one can appreciate that this is an otherwise non-distinctive variably pleomorphic tumour composed of spindled, ovoid, polygonal or multinucleate cells with palely eosinophilic cytoplasm and variably bizarre pleomorphic nuclei with focally prominent nucleoli.  There is a variable chronic inflammatory infiltrate.  There are no evident lipoblasts.  There seems to be little evidence of treatment effect.  There is no significant adjacent actinic damage.  The lesion involves deep dermis but is mainly subcutaneous in distribution.  The neoplastic cells are entirely negative for SMA, desmin, CD34, S-100 protein, MDM2, CDK4 and pan-keratin - in other words, there is no evidence of a specific line of differentiation.  In these circumstances, personally, I would label this as an unclassified pleomorphic sarcoma, morphologically low grade.  The absence of necrosis and very limited proliferative activity allow the "low grade" designation.  It would be important for this tumour to be widely excised in order to ensure local control. 
With regard to your specific questions, "pleomorphic dermal sarcomas" almost definitionally arise in heavily sun-damaged skin and closely resemble AFX, except for the fact that they extend into underlying subcutis and are associated with a small but definite risk of distant metastasis.  As such, as you rightly say, the behaviour is very different from deep seated pleomorphic sarcomas.  SMA positivity is not uncommon in this context, likely reflecting myofibroblastic differentiation, but has no biologic significance per se". 
FINAL DIAGNOSIS:
Right arm (excision):
-  Unclassified pleomorphic sarcoma, morphologically low grade.
-  See above regarding margins.

