
Episode No:  30D379111I
3013791.EDI

KEANU, Garland Vincent 
Lab No:  30D37911
Wellswood
LEGANA  Queensland  4420
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  4/1/2000
Sex:  M
Collected: 17/08/2065 at 15:53
Location:  ACT-GOULBURN VALLEY HEALTH - SHEPPARTON CAMPUS
DR Ezekiel ENRIQUE LUCZKOWIAK
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Right submandibular gland excision and neck dissection level 1 - 5.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Neck lesion level 1" consists ofa specimen of submandibular gland and surrounding soft tissue measuring 72 x 40 x 32mm.  The external surface is inked green.  Within the submandibular gland there is an ill defined pale firm area (?tumour)measuring approximately 32 x 25 x 22mm.  The tumour abuts the inked margins.  Several lymph nodes identified, the largest is 15mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks: 1 to 10 - entire submandibular gland sequentially blocked (4&5 - paired; 6 & 7 - paired) (4 - reserve block); 11 - one bisected lymph node; 12 - ?lymph nodes as seen; 13 - one bisected lymph node.
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Level 2 node" consists of a 12 x 10 x 8mm lymph node and a separate piece of fatty tissue measuring 28 x 9 x 5mm.  There appears to be one lymph node within the separate piece of fatty tissue 4mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks: 1- one lymph node; 2 - separate piece of fatty tissue bisected, ?lymph node.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Level 2/3" consists of an irregularly shaped piece of fatty tissue measuring 60 x 40 x 20mm.  The external surface is inked green.  A few lymph nodes are identified, the largest being 16mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks: 1 to 4 - each one lymph node; 5 to 8 - sections of fat looking for lymph node.
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Level 5" consists of two separate pieces of fatty tissue measuring 60 x 25 x 8mm and 32 x 20 x 10mm.  The external surface of the larger piece is inked green and the external surface of the smaller piece inked black.  No lymph nodes are seen in the larger piece.  One likely lymph node is seen in the smaller piece, 8mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks: 1 to 6 - entire larger piece; 7- ?bisected lymph node; 8 to 10 - entire smaller piece AE.   (TO: FC; DR/ta 18/8/65) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr I Relf): 
A.  The entire submandibular glandis embedded and examined.  Sections of the 32mm tumour within the submandibular gland show a high grade carcinoma arranged in sheets that are both compact as well asloosely cohesive, the latter possibly an artefact related to fixation.  The tumour profile is partly circumscribed and partly infiltrative, however, tumour overruns much of the submandibular gland parenchyma with scattered uninvolved ducts and infiltrated acini within its confines.  The malignant cells display round to irregular nuclei with a high nuclear cytoplasmic ratio, mostly granular chromatin, a small amount of amphophilic to eosinophilc granular cytoplasm, and inconspicuous nucleoli.  Areas of nuclear moulding are seen and there are scattered cell clusters and rosette-like structures. There are foci of perineural invasion within the confines of the tumour and the tumour also invades the muscular walls but not lumen of large blood vessels within the confines of the tumour.  The tumour is highly mitotic active but shows no conspicuous areas of necrosis.  The tumour abuts the surgical marginin areas and there is focal extension beyond the submandibular gland into adipose tissue.  Nodefinite lymphovascular invasion is seen.  No glandular differentiation, intercellular prickles, intracellular pigment are seen.No abrupt squamous differentiation seen.   One perisubmandibular lymph node shows reactive changes only (0/1).  
Immunohistochemistry:  
The tumour cells stain as follows:
Positive:  AE1/AE 3 (strong diffuse), MNF116 (strong diffuse), NSE, CK7 (strong diffuse) BCL2 and CD56 (strong diffuse) and P63 (patchy weak in minority of cells) and S100 (weak)
Negative:  Synaptophysin, Chromogranin, NF68, TTF1, CK20, CD79a, LCA, CD3, CD20,TDT, Cyclin D1, CK5/6, PSA, PSMA, GATA 3, Desmin, Myogenin, MIC2, CD34, SOX 10, and Calcitonin. 
COMMENT:
The features are those of high grade neuroendocrine carcinoma, most consistent with small cell carcinoma.  There is diffuse NSE and CD56 expression which, in association with the tumour morphology, is consistent with a diagnosis of high grade neuroendocrine carcinoma, rather than undifferentiated carcinoma even though more specific markers of neuroendocrine differentiation (Synaptophysin and Chromogranin) are negative.  Given the bulky disease in the submandibular gland and locoregional metastasis, the features would be compatible with a submandibular gland primary.  The CK7 expression, however, is unusual as the majority of primary submandibular neuroendocrine carcinomas express CK20 rather than CK7.  Negative CK20 is against metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma and negative TTF1 against lung carcinoma.  The previously reported prostate carcinoma (IBD379111-34) was reportedly an acinar adenocarcinoma Gleason 3+4=7 with no mention of a neuroendocrine component.  Correlation with the clinical and staging radiological features is suggested.  I will seek a second opinion from A/Prof I Berntsen at SEALS Pathology, EMERALD HOSPITAL Hospital and a supplementary report will be issued.
B.  One lymph node is replaced by small cell carcinoma (1/1).  The tumour shows similar albeit more lymphoid-like appearance to the main tumour.  No extranodal extension is seen.
C.  Three (3) of nine (9) lymph nodes contain metastatic small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (3/9).  No extranodal extension is seen
D.  One (1) of seven (7) lymph nodes contains a relatively sparse deposit of metastatic small cell carcinoma )1/7).  Thecarcinoma is composed of discohesive cells within the subcapsular sinus.  No extranodal extension is seen.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A to D.  Right submandibular gland excision and neck dissection levels 1 to 5:
-  32mm small cell carcinoma in submandibular gland, perineural invasion within confines of tumour, vascular wall invasion but no intravascular invasion seen, extra submandibular extension, positive margin (see comment), external review pending (supplementary report to follow).
-Four (4) of eighteen (18) lymph nodes containing metastatic small cell carcinoma (involved nodes in level 2, level 2/3 and level 5).



