
 5760582.AAS
MELVILLE, Fausto
57Q05820

Last edited : 4/2/2065		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
86 yo female with primary peritoneal serous carcinoma.  6 cycles of carbo/taxol.  Interval debulking.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, right tube and right ovary" consists of a uterus with attached cervix, right tube and right ovary weighing 43g in total.  The uterus measures 75 x 30 x 25mm and has an unremarkable serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 25 x 20mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 1mm in thickness and the myometrium is 13mm in thickness.  There is one fibroid within the posterior myometrium measuring 8mm in maximum dimension.  Otherwise the myometrium is unremarkable.  The right fallopian tube measures 55mm in length x 7 x 7mm in diameter.  The right ovary measures 20 x 10 x 10mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.  There is a smooth lined cyst at the edge of the ovary filled with clear serous fluid.  
Blocks:  1 & 2 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix; 3 to 5 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix; 6 & 7 - fallopian tube (fimbrial end all embedded); 8 to 12 - right ovary with adnexa.AE.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Left fallopian tube plus left ovary" consists of a fallopian tube measuring 35mm in length x 6 x 6mm in maximum dimension.  There is a firm cream mass measuring 5mm attached to the proximal endof the serosa of the fallopian tube.  The ovary measures 32 x 22 x 20mm and the external surface is covered with small exophytic excrescences as well as firm smooth covered cream nodules measuring from 5 to 10mm.  There is attached adnexa measuring 45 x 25 x 5mm which is haemorrhagic and dark brown in colour.  The cut surface of the ovary is firm white and has small cream areas.  AE.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - fallopian tube; 3 to 7 - ovary; 8 to 12 - adnexa.  
.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 130 x 35 x 35mm.  There is haemorrhagic fibrinous material over the majority of the omentum.  No discrete lesion is identified within the omentum, howeverthe bulk of the omentum feels firm and fibrotic.  Representative in 3 blocks.  
(OS/mm 30.3.65)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr O Carr):  
A.  Sections show high grade serous adenocarcinoma involving anterior wall of uterus.  The tumour cells with high grade nuclei are arranged in solid sheets and nests with psammoma body type calcification.  The tumour involves the serosa and outer half of myometrial wall.The rest of myometrial wall is unremarkable except of a small leiomyoma.  The endometrium is atrophic and shows no significant abnormality.  The cervix is unremarkable.  The right fallopian tube is unremarkable.  The right ovary is unremarkable.
B.  Sections show high grade serous adenocarcinoma involving left ovary and left fallopian tube.  Majority of tumour is on the surface of left ovary.  The tumour shows similar appearances as those described in the specimen A.  Papillary architecture is focally present.  
C.  Sections of omentum show extensive involvement by high grade serous adenocarcinoma.  Extensive fibrosis and psammoma body type calcification are present.
Comment:
The overall appearances are in keeping with those of primary peritoneal serous adenocarcinoma.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, cervix, right tube and right ovary - Serous adenocarcinoma.
B.  Left fallopian tube and left ovary - Serous adenocarcinoma.
C.  Omentum - Serous adenocarcinoma.

