Episode No:  59O713186R
5957131.VQR

LOT, Lashawna JOE 
Lab No:  59O71318,59O71318
Nook
DANDENONG  Tasmania  1236
Specimen: Fluid,Tissue
D.O.B:  17/8/2018
Sex:  F
Collected: 09/01/2065 at 15:10
Location:  Immunology - JOHN HUNTER HOSPITAL ROYAL NEWCASTLE CENTRE
DR Sal ABRAM Esselman
Distribution:  DR RADU
CLINICAL:
Hyperandrogenism.  Likely left-sides androgen secreting neoplasm. Dilatation and curettage.  Laparoscopic left salpingo-oophorectomy and right salpingectomy along with dilatation and curettage.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right fallopian tube", consists of a fallopian tube with fimbriae 55mm in length and 8mm external diameter.  Representative sections in 2 blocks. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Left tube plus ovary", consists of an ovary 40 x 25 x 20mm, and separate fallopian tube with fimbriae, 60mm in length and 5mm diameter. Within the ovary is a haemorrhagic and cystic tumour, 15 x 12 x 12mm.  
Blocks 1-4 - tumour serially embedded; 5 - uninvolved ovary and fallopian tube.
C.  Specimen labelled "Curettings", consists of fragments of mucoid material 10mm in aggregate.  AE 1 block.  (TO: TA/ec 9.2.65) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr O Real):
A.  The sections show unremarkable fallopian tube.  There is no evidence of in situ or invasive malignancy.
B.  The 15mm tumour within the left ovary is a Leydig cell tumour.  The tumour is located within the hilum of theovary adjacent to thick walled vessels.  The tumour is circumscribed but unencapsulated and is composed of sheets of polygonal cells with mostly well defined cytoplasmic borders, abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm, round to oval nuclei, occasional intranuclear inclusions, small but conspicuous nucleoli and interspersed pigment, consistent with lipochrome pigment.  Occasional cells show moderate nuclear pleomorphism.  There are areas of nuclear clustering with cytoplasmicnuclear free zones.  No fibrinoid change is seen within vessel walls.   Focally, numerous intracytoplasmic Reinke's crystals are present (block B4).  There are areas of acute haemorrhage but no necrosis.  A single mitotic figure (no atypical forms) is seen.  With immunostains the tumour shows diffusely Inhibin and Caretinin expression, pathcy MelanA expression and is negative for SOX10.  The tumour appears completely excised.  The uninvolved ovary is unremarkable.The fallopian tube is unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Sections show fragments of endocervical glands and stroma with mixed mucus and squamous epithelium.  No definite endometrium is present for assessment.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right fallopian tube:
- No significant abnormality.
B.  Left fallopian tube and left ovary:
- 15mm Leydig cell tumour 
- Fallopian tube, no significant abnormality.
C.  Curettings:
- Insufficient for assessment.  

