 3889274.SSI
HAKES, HUNG
38V92747

Last edited : 22/7/2054		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Right hemicolectomy for small bowel mesentery tumour adjacent to ureter and psoas.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Deep stroke ureter double stitch", consists of a right hemicolectomy measuring 340mm in length which includes a length of terminal ileum 220mm in length.  There is an attached unremarkable appearing appendix 45mm in length.  In the mesentery roughly the area of the ileocecal valve is a relatively well circumscribed firm tumour, measuring 65 x 60 x 50mm.  It is bordered on three sides by peritoneum and on the deep aspect furthermost from the bowel there is a roughened area where there is a double stitched marking the ureteric aspect.  The cut surface reveals that the tumour is firm, cream and well circumscribed.  No areas of haemorrhage or necrosis are identified in the tumour.  The tumour is well clear of the bowel and does not invade to the muscularis propria.  The tumour abuts the surgical resection margin across a broad front.  The mucosa appears unremarkable throughout the terminal ileum, caecum and ascending colon.  Two possible lymph nodes are identified in the specimen. 
Blocks:1 - resection margins; 2 and 3 - appendix; 4 - tumour to area marked as ureteric; 5 to 9 - further representative tumour; 10 - representative bowel; 11 - ?lymph nodes.  (TO: ZV;GB/vo 18.7.64) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr E Dedo):
Sections from the tumour in the region of the ileocaecal valve show a malignant spindle cell neoplasm, organised in intersecting fascicles. The neoplasm is predominantly centred within the mesentery with infiltration into the muscularis.The neoplastic spindle cells have abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm and show smooth muscle differentiation.  The cells have highly pleomorphic nuclei, many of which have prominent nucleoli.  Multinucleated tumour cells are also seen.  Mitotic figures including atypical mitoses are present, with up to 7 mitoses per 10 high power fields counted.  Centrally, the tumour is oedematous, however, definite coagulative tumour necrosis is not seen.   
The tumour expresses smooth muscle actin and desmin strongly and uniformly. There is no expression of pancytokeratin AE1/AE3, CD34, CD117, S100 or myogenin. This immunohistochemical profile and histological features are consistent with a leiomyosarcoma.
The tumour abuts the inked serosal surface in four sections (5 to 8).  The tumour lies 2mm from the closest inked margin in the region of double stitch marking the ureteric aspect.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  The appendix is unremarkable.  There is no dysplasia of the ileal or caecal mucosa.  The tumour is clear of the proximal and distal margins.  
DIAGNOSIS:
Right hemicolectomy:  
	Leiomyosarcoma centred in the mesentery in the region of the ileocaecal valve, 65mm in maximum dimension.  
	The tumour abuts the serosa but is clear of the resection margins.  
	No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  
	Two lymph nodes are negative.  


