Episode No:  82W661395A
828661.HYN

Jungwirth, MICHEL Nyininy WALDO Neville 
Lab No:  82W66139
S Hermosa
NAMBOUR  NT  4678
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  17/10/2027
Sex:  F
Collected: 23/06/2065 at 12:46
Location:  105 HAMRUN CIRCUIT-WARREN HOSPITAL
PRO Evelina MANDUWAY Roelle
Distribution:     FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
Appendiceal cancer.  Mesenteric lymph node. Omentectomy. Anterior resection. Rt hemicolectomy, Splenectomy. Uterus/ovaries/tubes. Peritoneum.
MACROSCOPIC:  
A. 'MESENTERIC LYMPH NODE'. Consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue, ranging from 9 up to 20mm. One lymph node identified up to 6mm. (1 contains transverse pieces of the lymph node and fatty tissue; 2 transverse pieces of the smaller piece). AE (M-2)
B. 'FALLOPIAN TUBES, UTERUS, BILATERAL OVARIES, RECTOSIGMOID, RIGHT COLON, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, PERITONEUM'. 
A uterus with attached fallopian tubes and ovaries. The uterus includes cervix and measures 80mm superoinferiorly, 15mm mediolaterally and 35mmanteroposteriorly. 
The left fallopian tube measures 80mm in length and up to 20mm in diameter. There is an unopened cyst attached to the fallopian tube up to 20mm. The fimbrial end is present. 
The left ovary measures 140x75x60mm. The external surface is congested, grey and nodular. Cut sectioning reveals a variegated solid and cystic tumour with tan, brown tumour with tan, brown solid areas. 
The right fallopian tube measures 70mm in length and up to 8mm in diameter. The fimbrial end is present. 
The right ovary measures 130x120x80mm with a similar appearances externally and internally to the leftovary. 
The endometrium measures up to 2mm and the myometrium up to 12mm. 
The spleen measures 130x80x20mm and weighs 209g. The capsule is intact. No lesions are identified. 
The gallbladder measures 80mm in length and up to 25mm in diameter. The external surface is grey and smooth. No stones are identified. The wall is 2mm thick. The mucosal surface is green and velvety. No lesions are identified. 
The segment of the rectosigmoid measures 170mm in length and up to 35mm in diameter with pericolic fat along a length of 150 mm. The peritoneal reflection divides near the distal end. The external surface and the mucosal surface are unremarkable. 
Theright hemicolectomy specimen consists of caecum, 80mm in length with terminal ileum measures 150mm in length and attached mesentery and pericolic fat measures up to 150mm, attached abnormal appendix 45mm in length and up to 18mm in diameter. The whole appendix is firm pale and solid with loss of lumen and the wall is indurated and expanded. Tumour appears to replace the appendix wall and infiltrate into surrounding mesoappeniceal fatty tissue to a depth of 10 mm. Threelymph nodes identified, ranging from 5 up to 6mm in maximum dimension. 
There are two pieces of omentum, ranging from 220mm up to 330mm. Multiple tan nodules are identified, ranging from 5 up to 15mm.
(1 pouch ofdouglas; 2-7 the uterus and cervix [2and3 sections of cervix; 2 is anterior; 3 is posterior; 4and5 is lower uterine segment; 4 is anterior; 5 is posterior; 6and7 body of the uterus; 6 is anterior; 7 is posterior]; 8and9 left fallopian tube; 10and11 right fallopian tube; 12-14 left ovary; 15-17 right ovary; 18 spleen; 19 gallbladder; 20 distal resection margin of rectosigmoid; 21 proximal resection margin of rectosigmoid with possible lymph node; 22-24 appendix; 25 distal resection margin of right hemicolectomy; 26 proximal resection of right hemicolectomy with one lymph node trisected; 27 two lymph nodes bisected; 28and29 omentum and peritoneum). RS (M-29/IB/cy) Further: 30 to 33 appendix remaining tissue, tip to near base. In the mid appendix there is a solid dark irregular foreign body about 7 x 3 mm embedded in submucosa. GD
 
MICROSCOPIC:  
A.MESENTERIC LYMPH NODE:
One lymph node is present, negative for tumour (0/1)
B. FALLOPIAN TUBES, UTERUS, BILATERAL OVARIES, RECTOSIGMOID, RIGHT COLON, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, PERITONEUM:
The appendix shows an invasive signet ring carcinoma which by growth pattern appears to be a primary tumour at this site, involving appendix mucosa, submucosa, muscle wall and serosal tissue with peritoneal surface penetration. 
The carcinoma has variable appearances with predominance of signet ring cells, and other areas with small single cell growth with some areas having a spindle cell fibrous reaction. There is focal extracellular mucin secretion. Some well formed adenocarcinoma glands are present focally. There is focal cord like growth within the appendix submucosa suggestive of a mixed adenoneuroendocrine carcinoma component but neuroendocrine markers label only occasional tumour cells. The tumour cells are uniformly CEApositive (3+). Ki767 labelling is very variable but is high, up to about 50 % labelling index, in the small cords of nonmucinous single cells. Areas of goblet cell carcinoid are not seen. Embedded in the appendix submucosa is a hard foreign body 7 mm diameter of presumed oral origin at this site, with an adjacent localised foreign body and suppurative inflammatory reaction
There is extensive metastatic spread of carcinoma to other organs listed below. 
There is extensive lymphovascular invasion present in appendix and in more distant organs.is a focus of venous invasion present in omental tissue. 
Appendix carcinoma type: signet ring carcinoma
Tumour site: involves whole of appendix.
Grade: poorly differentiated
Tumour extent: tumour penetrates serosa of appendix
Lymph nodes: 4 of 7 mesenteric lymph nodes sampled contain deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma (4/7 positive). The largest node metastasis is 3 mm diameter and in marginal sinus. A further lymph node in omentum contains metastatic carcinoma (1/ 1 positive)
Excision margins: the appendix tumour is macroscopically well clear of the colon and ileum margins.
Other organs involved:
Right ovary mass: Extensively involved by metastatic carcinoma, intraparenchymal
Left ovary mass: Extensively involved by metastatic carcinoma, intraparenchymal
R Fallopian tube: Involved by metastatic carcinoma; extensive lymphovascular invasion present
L Fallopian tube: Involved by metastatic carcinoma, extensive lymphovascular invasion present
Uterus: Involved by metastatic carcinoma, invasive into anterior and posterior peritoneum and subserosa, and invasive well into myometrium, and metastaticto endocervical stroma and cervix stroma; extensive lymphovascular invasion present
Colon: Serosa involved by metastatic carcinoma.
Omentum: Involved by metastatic carcinoma
Other organs not involved: Spleen, gallbladder.
Other findings: The endometrium is inactive. Ectocervical mucosa and endocervical mucosa is unremarkable.
Appendix carcinoma stage: pT4aN2M1b
Immunostains: (see start of microscopic report)
Previous biopsy report (DHM) and review noted.
- - DIAGNOSIS - -
A. MESENTERIC LYMPH NODE - 
- One lymph node present, negative for tumour (0/1)
B. FALLOPIAN TUBES, UTERUS, BILATERAL OVARIES, RECTOSIGMOID, RIGHT COLON, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, PERITONEUM -
- appendiceal signet ring carcinoma, poorly differentiated, carcinoma penetrates appendix peritoneal surface;
- extensive lymphovascular invasion present;
- focal venous invasion present;
- sampled mesenteric lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma (4 of 7 nodes involved)
- lymph node in omentum positive for metastatic carcinoma (1 of 1 node positive)
- Metastatic carcinoma involves enlarged right and left ovaries (ovarian Krukenberg tumours), right and left fallopian tubes, uterus serosa and deeper uterus parenchyma, colon serosa, omentum.
- Appendix carcinoma stage: pT4aN2M1b
26/6/65, U Biddiscombe. 

