Episode No:  51I098450W
513098.LNB

Linman, Theodora 
Lab No:  51I09845
Walter Scott
CLIFTON SPRINGS  Australian Capital Territory  1499
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  4/1/1992
Sex:  M
Collected: 18/06/2065 at 12:41
Location:  SEALS-MALENY HOSPITAL
DR Andy FATIMAH FUSILIER
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
L renal mass - lap radical nephrectomy.  Prostate ca, radiation proctitis.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Left kidney", consists of a kidney measuring 110 x 67 x 50mm with attached perinephric adipose tissue measuring up to 70mm in width.  No adrenal gland is identified.  The kidney weighs roughly 255g. There is an attached segment of ureter measuring 70mm in length with a diameter of 4mm.  The luminal surface of the ureter appears smooth and unremarkable.  There is an attached stapled segment of renal artery measuring 8mm in diameter to a length of 25mm.  There is an attached stapled segment of renal vein measuring 13mm in diameter to a length of 15mm.  This main stapled segment of renal vein branches into a smaller segment measuring 50mm in length with a diameter of 5mm.  On sectioning, there is a well circumscribed, spongy tumour with a patchy grey/haemorrhagic appearance.  The tumour is bulging from the medial aspect of the kidney directly adjacent to, and inferior to, the renal pelvis.  The tumour measures 33 x 33 x 35mm.  The overlying renal capsule appears smooth.  The tumour is directly adjacent to the renal vein, which appears macroscopic uninvolved.  There is a thin, loosely attached portion of perinephric fat overlying the tumour whichis inked blue.  There is a cyst at the anteroinferior aspect of the capsular surface of the kidney measuring 13mm in diameter to a height of 7mm.  The cyst is filled with a yellow watery fluid.  No lymph nodes are identified in the perirenal fat.  RS. 
Blocks:  1 - TS ureteric margin; 2 - TS arterial margin; 3 - TS venous margin; 4 to 6 - composite section of tumour with adjacent renal pelvis, ureter, and vessels; 7 & 8 - composite section tumour with adjacent renal hilum; 9 - tumour with adjacent renal hilum; 10 & 11 - tumour with adjacent perinephric fat; 12 - representative renal parenchyma; 13 - renal hilum; 14 - capsular cystic area.  (TO: IC; UQ/rt 19.6.65)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr N Kry):
The 35mm tumour in the inferomedial third of the kidney is a renal oncocytoma. The tumour is circumscribed but unencapsulated with a thin delimiting zone of compressed atrophic renal parenchyma.  The tumour displays a trabecular and tubulocystic arrangement of epithelial cells with round nuclei, occasional small nucleoli, granular chromatin and abundant eosinophilic granular cytoplasm.  Occasional binucleate cells are seen and there is mild to moderate nuclear size variation but no perinuclear halos.  There is intervening hypocellular oedematous stroma as well as fresh haemorrhage within some of the tubulocystic lumina.  No mitoses or necrosis is seen.  No involvement of the renal or hilar fat or vascular involvement is seen. Focally a zone of renal capsule appears to form the margin, however, this probably reflects artefactual detached overlying fat. The surgical margins are clear of tumour. 
Immunohistochemistry:
The tumour cells stain as follows:
Positive:  CK7 (sparse patchy), Ecadherin (retained membranous pattern)
Negative:  HMB45
The overall Ki67 proliferation index is low.
The immunoprofile is compatible with an oncocytoma.
non-tumour kidney parenchyma shows features consistent with mild benign nephrosclerosis.  There is mild undulation of the cortical surface associated with patchy small cortical areas of glomerulosclerosis, tubular atrophy and mild interstitial chronic inflammation.  There is very mild patchy tubular atrophy.  The glomeruli are unremarkable.  No focal sclerosing lesions seen. No double countours seen on Silver staining.  No amyloid deposition seen on Congo red and Crystal Violet staining. There isfocal hyalinosis within a renal arteriole and mild fibrointimal hyperplasia of renal arterioles and arteries.  There is sparse tubular calcification and patchy hyaline tubular casts.  The cyst described on the anterior inferior aspect of the capsular surface is a simple cortical cyst. There is patchy mucosal and perimucosal chronic inflammation at the renal pelvis which is also noted focally at a renal pyramid. 
There is no evidence of malignancy.  
Selected slides shown to Dr N Kines who concurs.
DIAGNOSIS:
Left kidney: 
-  35mm renal oncocytoma, margins clear. 

