Episode No:  37L426469H
3744264.QZH

WESTMORELAND, Antonio 
Lab No:  37L42646
Westbay
GRETA  ACT  6635
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  23/6/2008
Sex:  M
Collected: 07/10/2065 at 17:44
Location:  StVincent-ANGASTON HOSPITAL
DR Long MARCEL Santomassimo
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Cholecystectomy.  NASH cirrhosis.  HCC seg VI/II on MRI.  Past TACE to the same lesion.  Now wedge resection of the lesion. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Liver tumour", consists of a piece of liver tissue 70 x 60 x 50mm.  The capsular surface is smooth.  The resection margin is inked blue.  Slicing reveals an encapsulated solid nodule 42 x 38 x 30mm. The nodule has pink and yellow somewhat soft solid cut surfaces.  The nodule abuts the capsular surface and is 5mm from the resection margin.  The remainder of the liver is diffusely nodular.  
Blocks 1-3- tumour and capsular surface (3 - reserve block); 4 - tumour resection margin; 5 - liver away from tumour (specials requested); 6 - tumour and adjacent liver including resection margin. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder", consists of agallbladder 80mm in length and up to 95mm in circumference. The serosal surface is smooth.  The mucosa is green and granular. There are no gallstones.  Block 1- cystic duct margin; 2 - TS body; 3 - LS fundus.  (TO: KE/ec   8.10.65) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr K Martin):
A.  Sections of the liver show features of an encapsulated moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma.  The tumour is composed of polygonal cells with distinct membrane and clear to granular eosinophilic cytoplasm.  They are variably arranged in trabeculae, nests, and pseudoacini, separated by sinusoidal vessels.  No sarcomatous component is identified.  Multinucleation and occasional nuclear pleomorphism can be seen throughout the tumour.  Mitotic figures are identified not infrequently.  Small areas of necrosis can be seen within the lesion with a patchy distribution.  A peripheral necrotic zone shows evidence of intravascular material, suggestive of perioperative embolization.  Multiple foci of lymphovascular space invasion are appreciable, located beyond the tumour capsule.  HepPar1 marker is expressed by the tumour cells with a variable staining pattern.
There is no tumour involvement of the capsular surface of the liver.  The closest resection margin is clear by at least 8mm.  

The background liver demonstrates diffuse architectural disruption.  There is established cirrhosis, marked by regenerating parenchymal nodules with prominent steatosis which are separated by bridging fibrous septa.  Moderate septal chronic inflammation, mild focal lobular activity, and piecemeal necrosis can be seen.  Areas with ongoing destruction of the hepatocytes and bile ductular proliferation admixed with inflammatory cells are in keeping with progressive disease.  
There is no iron or copper depositionidentified.  No DPAS positive globules are present.  Orcein stain appears unremarkable.
B.  Sections of the gallbladder show focal Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses and a mild patchy chronic inflammatory infiltrate.  There surface epithelium is well preserved with no evidence of dysplasia.


DIAGNOSIS: 
A.  Liver tumour:
	Moderately differentiated HCC, 42mm in size.
	Lymphovascular space invasion.
	Surgical margin clear.
	Established cirrhosis with steatosis and evidence of ongoing injury inthe background parenchyma.

B.  Gallbladder:  No significant abnormality.


 

