 2854534.TJO
DEWOLF, ALLAN Kena
28P45347

Last edited : 6/10/2065	: 2
CLINICAL:
? Smooth muscle tumour.  Increased prolactin.  Bg:  Wilms tumour 15 yrs ago.  
Additional history obtained: R nephrectomy 15 yrs ago for Wilms.  Associated radiotherapy.  Tumour retroperitoneal, overlying IVC. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Peritoneal tumour over IVC", consists of a roughly ovoid tumour measuring 88 x 63 x 60mm and weighing 174g.  The tumour appears invested in a delicate, translucent membrane.  The anterior surface is inked blue and the posterior surface (site of IVC) is inked black.  The specimen is sectioned from superior to inferior into 19 approximately equal slices (4 to 5mm thickness each).  The cut of the tumour surface has a relatively uniform, pale grey appearance.  There is no haemorrhage or necrosis identified macroscopically.
Blocks:  1- LS superior margin; 2- LS inferior margin; 3 - LS inferior margin; 4 to 6 - TS right margin; 7 to 9 - TS left margin; 10 to 12 - TS anterior margin; 13 to 15 - TS posterior margin; 16 to 18 - representative central area of tumour.  Please refer to block diagram.  (MH/mm 2.10.65) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr H Trilling & registrar Dr H Ahmed):
Sections show tumourconsisting of interlacing fascicles of spindle cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and blunt ended nuclei.  The tumour cells show positive staining with SMA and desmin.  The S100, CD34 and C-kit stains are negative.  The prolactin stain isnegative.  The features are consistent with a smooth muscle neoplasm.
The great majority of the spindle cells appear bland however,focally there is mild nuclear atypia.  There is no necrosis.  The mitotic count within one group of 50 high power fields reaches 6.  In other areas the mitotic count is low.  
Most of the tumour is surrounded by a narrow rim of fibroadipose tissue however, the tumour focally abuts the superior and posterior margins and is 0.1mm or less from other margins.
COMMENT:  The features are those of a smooth muscle neoplasm.  The location within the retroperitoneum together with a mitotic count of just greater that 5 per 50 hpf best classifies the tumour as a smooth muscle tumour of uncertain malignant potential.
DIAGNOSIS:
Peritoneal tumour over IVC:
- Smooth muscle tumour of uncertain malignant potential (see comment)
- Abuts surgicalmargin.

