Episode No:  97F102404P
972102.KAK

MCAVOY, RUDOLF 
Lab No:  97F10240
Frenchmans
KATHERINE  South Australia  4678
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  28/1/2029
Sex:  F
Collected: 10/08/2065 at 09:07
Location:  DAY SURGERY UNIT-ROYAL REHABILITATION HOSPITAL - COORABEL/MOORONG
DR IVORY Kathlyn FIECK
Distribution:  DR GALE,    FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
L lobe papillary Ca.  Involved node central neck encasing RLN - sharply dissected off.  Atypical noduleR lobe.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right thyroid lobe" consists of a thyroid lobe 45 x 42 x 22mm.  The tracheal surface is inked blue and the anti-tracheal surface is inked black.  Specimen is serially sliced.  Slicing reveals an ill-defined pale solid mass occupying most of the lobe measuring 42 x 30 x 12mm.
Blocks:  1 to 16 - all sequentially embedded from superior towards inferior pole (from block 4 to block 13 each two successive blocks are paired).  AE.
B.  Specimen labelled "Left lobe" consists of a thyroid lobe 45 x 40 x 30mm.  The tracheal surface is inked blue and the anti tracheal surface is inked black.  Specimen is serially sliced.  Loosely attached to the lower pole there is a pale brown solid nodule 12 x 8 x 6mm, weighing 150mg.  Slicing the thyroid reveals an ill-defined pale solid nodule with a vaguely lobular appearance occupying most of the thyroid lobe measuring 36 x 35 x 20mm.  Specimen is sequentially blocked from superiortowards inferior pole.
Blocks:  1 to 17 - the entire thyroid lobe sequentially blocked (from block 2 to 15 - each successive pair comprise one slice; 5 - reserved block).
C.  Specimen labelled "Central neck lymph node" consists of a lymph node 5 x 3 x 2mm with attached fatty tissue 7 x 4 x 2mm.  AE 1 block.
D.  Specimen labelled "Left central neck dissection" consists of two pieces of tissue 40 x 20 x 7 and 15x 13 x 5mm.  There are several lymph nodes ranging from 4 to 14mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks:  1 - one ? lymph node trisected, the smaller piece; 2 - lymph nodes as seen; 3 - one trisected lymph node; 4 bisected lymph node; 5 - lymph node as seen.
E.  Specimen labelled "Pre cricoid tissue" consists of a piece of fatty tissue 18 x 12 x 3mm.  The external surface is inked blue.  BAE 1 block.  (TO: EE; IH/rt 10.8.65)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof Y Janos):
A. Sections show a 20mm papillary thyroid carcinoma (tumour present in 4 - 5 slices). The carcinoma is 0.55mm from the closest capsular (black) margin (block A14), and 2.2mm from the closest paratracheal (blue) surgical margin. 
There is a diathermied, microscopic focus of atypia associated with a calcification situated at the junctionc between the blue and black margins. Distortion makes interpretation difficult andit is not certain whether this represents diathermied tumour. There is a thin rim of fibrous tissue approximately 0.2mm thick between this focus and the inked surface of the gland. 
There are no areas of lymphovascular invasion identified. 
A second 1mm focus is identified in A2, towards the superior pole. This focus is 1mm from the paratracheal margin and well clear of the capsular (black) margin.
No definite extrathyroidal extension is seen.
There is a benign intrathyroidal parathyroid gland.
The background thyroid shows changes suggestive of Hashimoto thyroiditis. There are areas of Hurtle cell change amongst atrophic follicles separated by fibrous bands. There are prominent lymphoid follicles which include germinal centre formation within nodular follicular areas. 
A large adenomatoid nodule is present composed on tightly packed, macro and microfollicles. A partial, thin fibrous capsule is present around this nodule, whichappears to partially blend with adjacent thyroid parenchyma at its periphery.
Focal atypia is present within this nodule, consisting of occasional grooved nuclei, but the overall nuclear features are dissimilar to those seen in the papillary carcinoma, and may relate to the spectrum of Hashimoto nuclear changes in the background thyroid.
There are two benign lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy. (0/2)
B. There are two foci of carcinoma within the left hemithyroidectomy. The largest is a 28mm papillary thyroid carcinoma. 
There are areas suggestive of lymphovascular invasion. (Block B2). 
The carcinoma is 1.5mm from the closest blue (paratracheal) margin and 2.7mm from the closest black (capsular) margin. Part of this carcinoma is infarcted,possibly from previous biopsy.
The second is an 8mm focus of papillary microcarcinoma. The microcarcinoma is 2.5mm from the closest blue (paratracheal) margin, and 2mm from the closest black (capsular) margin.
One or two other microscopic foci of less than 1mm are present within the thyroid parenchyma.
No definite extrathyroidal extension is seen. There is tumour close to an area of diathermy on the surface of the specimen, but it is not certain whether this is at the surgical division between left and right lobes. 
The background thyroid shows changes of Hashimoto thyroiditis, similar to specimen A (Right hemithyroidectmy).
Thereare three benign lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy. (0/3)
C. There is one benign lymph node is no evidence of malignancy. (0/1)
D. There are eleven lymph nodes identified. Four lymph nodes contain metastatic carcinoma. One of these lymph nodes is replaced by carcinoma and forms a tumour nodule 11mm in maximum dimension, extending beyond the lymph node capsule (Block D3). (4/11)
E. There are two benign lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy. (0/2)
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right thyroid lobe:
- 20mm papillary thyroid carcinoma.
- Margins appear clear.
- One benign intrathyroid parathyroid gland.
- Two benign lymph nodes (0/2).
- Background Hashimoto thyroiditis.
. Left thyroid lobe:
- 28mm papillary thyroid carcinoma, with an area suspicious for lymphovascular invasion.
- Margins appear clear.
- 8mm papillary thyroid microcarcinoma.
- Margins appear clear.
- Three benign lymph nodes (0/3).
- Background Hashimoto thyroiditis.

C. Central neck lymph node:
- One benign lymph node (0/1)

D. Left central neck dissection:
- Four out of eleven lymph nodes contain metastatic carcinoma (4/11).

E. Pre cricoid tissue:
- Two benign lymph nodes (0/2).



