Episode No:  76T823310J
7678233.EBJ

PANTE, Jose 
Lab No:  76T82331
Northeast Killian
PAKENHAM  Tasmania  4066
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  6/11/1992
Sex:  M
Collected: 26/9/2065 at :
Location:  EAST SURGICAL-NEPEAN HOSPITAL
DR Gerardo FRED Nichol
Distribution:  
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (22.10.65):

CLINICAL:
1.  Distal jejunal polyp with intussusception, segmental resection of jejunum.  
2.  Proximal jejunal polyp antimesenteric luminal mucosa of jejunum, wedge resection.
3.  More proximal jejunal polyp mesenteric luminal mucosa of jejunum, enterostomy and polypectomy. 
4.  Large omental lesion resected.  
5.  x 2 lesions of jejunal mesentery resected, ?mets. 
NSCLC, IHD, 2 x PCI, HT, dyslipidemia.  T2DM.   

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Distal jejunum", consists of a segment of small bowel measuring 135mm in length with an open circumference of 75mm.  There is a small portion of attached mesentery measuring up to 45mm in width.  The surgical margins are inked blue.  There is a pedunculated, polypoid tumour measuring 66 x 44 x 48mm.  The tumour is situated 35mm from the presumed distal surgical margin and 100mm from the presumed proximal surgical margin.  The adjacent serosa and mesentery have been drawn into the base of the tumour creating an indentation (7x6mm) in the bowel wall.  The cut surface of the tumour has a pale grey and haemorrhagic appearance.  The remaining mucosa appears unremarkable.  RS.
Blocks: 1 - presumed proximal surgical margin; 2 - presumed distal surgical margin; 3 to 5 - composite mid line full face of tumour; 6 to 8 - composite mid line full face tumour; 9 - tumour with serosal/mesenteric infolding; 10 - single lymph node.  
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Proximal jejunum mesenteric lesion", consists of a pale grey, roughly ovoid piece of tissue measuring 6 x 5 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.   
C.  Specimen labelled "More proximal small bowel polyp", consists of an irregularly shaped fragment of presumed bowel wall measuring 24 x 15 x 13mm.  AE 2 blocks. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Proximal jejunal polyp", consists of a polypoid piece of tissue measuring 25 x 17 x 18mm.  The presumed base of the polyp is inked blue.  RS 2blocks.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - midline sections.  
 
E.  Specimen labelled "Mid jejunal mesenteric lesion", consists of a pale grey piece of tissue measuring 4 x 4 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.   
 
F.  Specimen labelled "Omentum mass", consists of a pale grey, firm, nodular tumour measuring 32 x 25 x 25mm.  In addition there is a separate small, pale grey, firm nodule measuring 6 x 5 x 6mm.  The cut surfaces have a relatively homogenous, pale grey appearance.  RS.
Blocks: 1 & 2 - midline sections large tumour; 3 - smaller nodule, bisected.  
(TO: UF; KG/ta 29/9/65) 

MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr S Ricklefs):
A.  Sections of the polyp show an ulcerated surface with an underlying moderately cellular spindle cell tumour.  The cells have oval, medium sized and large, rather bland nuclei and a moderate amount of pale or eosinophilic cytoplasm.  They tend to have a vertical orientation towards the ulcerated surface and are arranged in broad fascicles.  Mitoses are very frequent, numbering over 10 per high power field.  No differentiating features are seen with routine staining.  The polyp involves mucosa and submucosa.  No lymphovascular or perineural invasion is identified.  The spindle cell tumour has a reasonably well circumscribed lower border.  
The underlying small bowel wall is oedematous and has an attenuated muscle layer.    There is some vascular ectasia and interstitial haemorrhage in the polyp, consistent with the effects of intussusception.  The adjacent small bowel mucosa is oedematous but otherwise unremarkable.  Sections of the proximal and distal excision margins of the specimen are unremarkable.  A single focus of old fat necrosis is identified in a section from the mesentery.
Immunostains:
CD34:  Negative
CD117 (c-kit):  Negative
Pancytokeratin, Cytokeratin 7, cytokeratin 20, cytokeratin AE1/3, cytokeratin 34BE12:        All negative
S100:  Negative
TTF-1:  Negative
HMB-45:  Negative.
Desmin:  Negative.
ALK-1:  Negative.
The tumour has a very similar appearance to the previous spindle cell tumour in theleft upper lobe (76T82331 and 76T82331).  A large number of immunostains were performed on the previous lung biopsies and the nature of the lung tumour was not determined.  The present tumour is considered to be the same entity.  The factthat there are multiple tumours now in the duodenum, mesentery and omentum suggests that these are most likely metastases of the previous lung tumour.  The possibility of a primary gastrointestinal spindle cell tumour, such as a GIST (gastrointestinal stromal tumour), has also been considered but immunostains for GIST (CD34, CD117) are negative.  Also, while GISTs can involve any layer of the bowel wall they are usually centred on the muscularis propria; the present tumour involves only mucosa and submucosa so this would be very unusual for a GIST.  However, slides will be sent to St Vincent's Hospital for a DOG 1 immunostain to be performed; this is another immunostain for GIST.  A supplementary report will be issued. 
The negative staining for several different cytokeratin stains is against the possibility of a metastatic sarcomatoid carcinoma.  No pigment is seen and immunostains for melanoma, performed on both the present specimen and the previous lung tumour, are all negative.
The features are considered to be most consistent with a metastatic sarcoma, NOS, from lung.
B.  Sections show fat with an associated tumour mass.The tumour consists of mixed spindle and epithelioid cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and has a similar appearance to the tumour in specimen A.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.
C.  Sections show small intestinal wall.  There is an ulcerated spindle cell tumour within the mucosa and submucosa.  The appearances are very similar to the tumour in specimen A.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  Deeper layers of the bowel wall are not involved and the mass appears to be completely excised.
D.  Sections show an ulcerated polypoid mass with some adjacent small intestinal mucosa and submucosa.  The mass is a spindle cell tumour with an oedematous and partly myxoid stroma, similar to specimen A.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  Uninvolved mucosa and submucosa are seen on each side at the base of the polyp so excision appears complete.
E.  Sections show a tumour deposit with some adjacent fat.  Thetumour has a very similar appearance to specimen A.
F.  Sections of both the main mass and the described smaller nodule show tumour.  The tumour is predominantly spindledcell and has an oedematous and partly myxoid stroma.  Thefeatures are similar to specimen A.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Distal jejunum:  Polypoid malignant spindle cell tumour with intussusception.  Features most consistent with metastatic sarcoma from lung, see text.  Supplementary report to follow.
B.  Proximal jejunum mesentery:  Malignant spindle celltumour.
C.  More proximal small bowel polyp:  Malignant spindle cell tumour.
D.  Proximal jejunal polyp:  Malignant spindle cell tumour.
E.  Mid jejunal mesentery:  Malignant spindle cell tumour.
F.  Mass omentum:  Malignant spindle cell tumour.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (22.10.65):
A.  A DOG-1 immunostain (performed at CULCAIRN MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE HOSPITALs Hospital) is negative.
Stains for two further melanoma markers, SOX 10and MIT-F, are also negative.

