Episode No:  61U264578P
617264.PTW

DEGOLLADO, DEANDRE 
Lab No:  61U26457
Promontory Point
BAIRNSDALE  Western Australia  1030
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  3/6/2023
Sex:  F
Collected: 10/05/2065 at 08:54
Location:  ST GEORGE PRIVATE-MONASH MEDICAL CENTRE - CLAYTON CAMPUS
DR Sherwood Arnold RAYMAN
Distribution:     FILE-COPY,NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Extended right hemihepatectomy.  Thymic Ca.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Extended right hemihepatectomy and gallbladder" consists of a partial liver resection (160 x 105 x 80mm) with attached gallbladder (95mm in length and up to 100mm in circumference).  The capsular surface of the liver is smooth.  The resection margin of the liver is inked blue.  There is a stapled line over the capsular surface.  Within the liver there are three separate but adjacent pale solid nodules ranging from 12 to 40mm in maximum dimension.  The three adjacent nodules occupy an area of 75mm in maximal extent.  The nodules abut the capsular surface. One of the nodules abuts the resection marginThe stapled line over the capsular surface is 25mm from the closest nodule.  The external surface of the gallbladder is smooth.  The mucosal surface is green and granular.  No gallstones are seen.
Blocks:  1 - cystic duct margin and TS neck; 2 - TS body; 3 - LS fundus; 4 - RS liver resection margin; 5 - one nodule and capsular surface; 6 - one nodule and capsular surface, reserved block; 7 - the smallest nodule and capsular surface; 8 - RS the second largest nodule; 9 & 10 - paired sections of the second largest nodule and resection margin; 11 - liver away from the nodules.  (TO: ZG; OR/rt 10.5.65)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by A/Prof Q Bercier and Dr Q Cavendish):  
Sections of liver show metastatic carcinoma. The tumour is vaguely nodular, and tumour cells form cords and trabeculae surrounding a dense eosinophilic hyalinised stroma. There are also more solid poorly differentiated areas in the periphery of nodules, composed of oval cells, with basophilic cytoplasm and oval nuclei, with coarse chromatin. Occasional nests have peripheral palisading whilst others contain small, central keratinised cystic spaces, resembling abortive Hassal's corpuscles. 
Other areas have cords composed of polygonal cells with dense eosinophilic cytoplasm. Some form glands filled with eosinophilic diPAS negative amorphous debris, and others have well differentiated foci of keratin with occasional intercellular bridges. Mitoses are present, up to 10 per 10 hpf.
CD5 and CD117 show membranous positivity. Both CD5 and CD117 are positive in neoplastic epithelial cells of thymic origin.
PANCK positivity confirms the epithelial nature of the malignancy. 
CK5/6 and P63 are positive. 
P16 is negative.  DiPAS and TTF1 are negative. Chromogranin is negative and synaptophysin is very focally positive insingle cells only. 
The features are of a thymic carcinoma of keratinising squamous cell carcinoma type. There are areas of poorly differentiated squamous carcinoma. 
There is tumour present at the blue (resection) margin. 
The liver away from the tumour nodules has normal architecture. There are small foci of microvesicular steatosis. Otherwise the liver is unremarkable. 
The gallbladder shows mild thickening of the gall bladder wall due to muscle hypertrophy, fibrosis and mild chronic inflammation.  Focal Rokitansky Aschoff sinus formation is present as well as small cholesterol polyps.  There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.

DIAGNOSIS:
Extended right hemihepatectomy and gall bladder:
- Metastatic keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, consistent with thymic origin.
- Present at resection margin.
- Gallbladder and liver away from tumour show no significant pathological abnormality.




