Episode No:  39M118359O
3941183.PZO

RODRIGRES, IRA HOWARD 
Lab No:  39M11835
Rishworth
GRETA  ACT  3951
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/5/1990
Sex:  F
Collected: 19/10/2065 at :
Location:  PaLMS-ROYAL PRINCE ALFRED HOSPITAL
DR SANDY Kelvin Brians
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Cervical cancer.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen A labelled "LLETZ" consists of a LLETZ biopsy 13 x 10 x 2mm, received fresh and serially sectioned in 7 blocks.  
Specimen B labelled "Endometrial currettings" consists of multiple dark tan tissue fragments, 15x12x3mm in aggregate. AE 1 block. (TO: Harold; WILLIE/rt 20.10.65)

MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr I Noon and Dr I Hollberg):
A.  Sections show tumour tissue.  The tumour consists of sheets of cells with large nuclei and eosinophilic, often 'ground glass' cytoplasm.  Some nuclei are very large and highly atypical.  Many of the nuclei have a single, prominent nucleolus and many cells have well defined cell borders.  There is squamous epithelium with features of high grade dysplasia present very focally on the surface of the specimen, and some scattered normal endocervical glands and other endocervical glands involved by squamous epithelium with features of CIN 3 are identified amongst the sheets of tumour cells.  No adenocarcinoma in-situ is seen.  There is also an associated prominent infiltrate of inflammatory cells, mainly neutrophils.  
The features are interpreted as a glassy cell carcinoma.  The tumour extends to all excision margins of the Lletz biopsy, including the deep margin.  No lymphovascular invasion is identified.
Glassy cell carcinoma is regarded as a poorly differentiated form of adenosquamous carcinoma.  No keratinisation or definite intercellular bridging are identified in the present tumour, but immunostains for p63 and cytokeratin 5/6 are strongly positive.  No glands are seen but there is very focal intracytoplasmic mucin identified with PASD and alcian blue stains.  The immunophenotype suggests that the present tumour is showing predominant squamous differentiation.
A p16 immunostain is also strongly positive.
B.  Sections show pieces of tumour tissue, similar to specimen A, and fragments of normal endocervical tissue.  No definite endometrium is seen.
Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr I Whitecotton.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Lletz biopsy of cervix:  Glassy cell carcinoma.
B.  Endometrial curettings:  Glassy cell carcinoma.

