
Episode No:  51X301682W
5193016.XGW

AKLES, Talgarno Noura 
Lab No:  51X30168,51X30168
Northshore
TRARALGON  Western Australia  4029
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  11/10/1980
Sex:  F
Collected: 6/3/2065 at :
Location:  Anat Path - ROYAL REHABILITATION HOSPITAL - COORABEL/MOORONG
DR Boyd Donald Bal
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Pelvic mass, ?Cervical, ?Endometrial ?Ovarian.  Ca 125=460.  HTN.  Chol.  Type 2 DM NIDDM.  OA.  Asthma.  COPD.  CABG 2011.  IHD.  PVD,  Mild as/pulm HTN.  FS left adnexal mass.  


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left adnexal mass" consists of multiple fragments of fleshy, tan and necrotic tissue, 85 x 65 x 15mm in aggregate.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - RS for frozen section; 3 to 7 - further sections oftumour. 
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Right adnexal mass" consists of a partially disrupted solid mass, 130 x 85 x 55mm, weighing 242g.  Part ofthe mass is covered by a smooth grey capsule.  The majority of the mass consists of tan fleshy tumour with areas of necrosis.  There is possible fallopian tube at one end of the mass 40 x 15 x 15mm.  
Blocks: 1 to 10 - RS tumour (1 - reserve block); 11 & 12 - possible fallopian tube.
C.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes" consists of a uterus with cervix and bilateral fallopian tubes and right ovary, weighing 99g in total.  The uterus with cervix is 90 x 65 x 35mm and is received opened posteriorly.  The ectocervix is 12 x 10mm.  The entire endometrial cavity is filled by an exophytic tan tumour, 60 x 30 x 30mm.  The tumour appears to involve the lower uterine segment/endocervix.  The tumour infiltrates to a depth of 2mm through a myometrial thickness of 18mm.  The tumour is 4mm clear of the uterine serosa.  The uterine serosa is unremarkable.  The right ovary is 25 x 15 x 12mm and the right fallopiantube is 50mm in length.  
Blocks: 1 to 4 - full LS anterior body and cervix; 5 to 9 - full LS posterior body and cervix; 10 - further section of cervix with tumour; 11 - right ovary; 12 - right fallopian tube.  
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Left pelvic side wall" consists of a piece of grey tissue measuring 25 x 20 x 15mm.  AE 2 blocks. 
 
E.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel adhesion" consists of a piece of haemorrhagic tissue measuring 10mm across.  BAE 1 block.  
 
F.  Specimen labelled "Omental biopsy" consists of a piece of omentum,140 x 115 x 10mm.  No focal lesions are seen.  RS 3 blocks.  
    
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma.
Result to Surgeon by Dr N Burglin at 12:25pm on 06/03/65.

MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr N Penado)
A & B.  Sections of the left and right adnexal masses show extensive involvement by moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. The carcinoma is associated with extensive necrosis. Foci of carcinoma are seen within the lumen and wall of the fallopian tube. The adenocarcinoma is negative for CK7 and CK20. 
C.  Sections of uterus show a mixed moderately differentiated endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinoma and high grade neuroendocrine (small cell) carcinoma. The adenocarcinoma consists of complex, crowded glands with minimal intervening stroma with solid areas (FIGO grade 2). Foci of adenocarcinoma infiltrate 11mm into a uterine wall 11.5mm thick. Discrete areas of extensively infiltrative poorly differentiated neuroendocrine (small cell) carcinoma extend through the full thickness of the uterine wall. Foci of small cell carcinoma are present within haemorrhagic adhesions and at the free uterine serosal surface (C8/9). There is multifocal lymphovascular space invasion (C6, C8, C9). Adenocarcinoma extends along the lower uterine segment and is present in the endocervical canal. Focally, adenocarcinoma is 0.56mm from the diathermied ectocervical margin. 
Immunohistochemical stains were performed and the results are as follows:
Adenocarcinoma shows diffuse cytoplasmic positivity for CAM5.2, and is negative for CD56, chromogranin A, MIC2, CK7, CK20, NSE and TTF-1. 
Poorly differentiated neuroendocrine (small cell) carcinoma shows dot-like paranuclear positivity for Cam5.2, positive CD56, synaptophysin, TTF-1 and NSE and is negative for chromogranin A, CK7, CK20 and MIC2.
A ki-67 immunoproliferative index highlights approximately 70% of adenocarcinoma nuclei and up to 95% of neuroendocrine (small cell) carcinoma nuclei. 
D.  Sections of the left pelvic side-wall biopsy show fibrocollagenous tissue containing numerous foci of moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma. The carcinoma shows crush type artefact in areas. 
E.  Sections of the small bowel adhesion show mesothelial lined fibroadipose tissue with patchy mesothelial cell hyperplasia, vascular proliferation and organising haemorrhage. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
F.  Sections show fragments ofmature fibroadipose and fibrocollagenous tissue. There is patchy mesothelial hyperplasia. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
COMMENT:
The uterine tumour shows morphologic and immunohistochemical features of a mixed moderately differentiated (FIGO grade 2) endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinoma and high grade neuroendocrine (small cell) carcinoma. The small cell carcinoma shows TTF-1 positivity, and although the morphology would be in keeping with primary uterine origin, the possibility of metastasis from a lung primary cannot be excluded. 
The bilateral ovaries show metastatic adenocarcinoma. Although the morphology and pattern of CK7/CK20 staining is similar in both the endometrial and ovarian adenocarcinomas, it is uncertain whether the bilateral ovarian tumours represent synchronous primary tumours or extensive metastatic deposits.
Representative slides seen with Dr N Monce.
Please correlate with clinical and imaging findings. 

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left adnexal mass: Adenocarcinoma. 

B.  Right adnexal mass: Adenocarcinoma. 

C.  Uterus, cervix and bilateral tubes:
Mixed moderately differentiated endometrioid adenocarcinoma and high grade neuroendocrine (small cell) carcinoma. 
Adenocarcinoma infiltrates 11mminto uterine wall 11.5 thick; neuroendocrine carcinoma shows full thickness involvement of the uterine wall and serosal involvement.
Adenocarcinoma extends into the lower uterine segment/endocervical canal and is very close to the diathermied cervical margin.

D.  Left pelvic side-wall: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 

E.  Small bowel adhesion: No evidence of malignancy. 

F.  Omental biopsy: No evidence of malignancy. 
See comment. 

