
Episode No:  36D064615H
3610646.ENH

LUMBA, HILTON DARRIN 
Lab No:  36D06461
Anacapri
WANGARATTA  TAS  5455
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  9/10/2020
Sex:  M
Collected: 15/10/2065 at :
Location:  PERI-OPERATIVE UNIT-CAMDEN HOSPITAL
DR Newton Exie Theard
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Retroperitoneal tumour.  Right nephrectomy and intraabdominal tumour excision.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right nephrectomy and intraabdominal liposarcoma", consists of a specimen which was received unorientated.  Upon opening the kidney was identified and from the orientation of the kidney the specimen was orientated as to anterior / posterior, medial / lateral and superior / inferior.  The specimen was weighed in theatre and was documented toweigh 18kg.  The specimen measures 510mm (medial to lateral) x 470mm (inferior to superior) x 180mm (anterior to posterior).  The posterior side is inked blue and the anteriorside is inked black.  Upon sectioning there are large nodules of fatty myxoid material identified throughout predominately in the lateral half of the specimen.  In between these nodules of more myxoid material are more lipomatous areasthroughout the rest of the specimen.  A kidney is identified within the fatty tissue and is entirely encased within the fatty tissue measuring 150 x 70 x 60mm.  A ureter was identified with an approximate length of 205mm.  A vascular resection margin was identified with a renal vein at the medial aspect of the tumour.  Atypical fat is identified surrounding the entire kidney.  The kidney parenchyma appears macroscopically unremarkable.  An adrenal gland was identified at the surgical resection margin measuring 45 x 25 x 15mm.  The adrenal gland appears unremarkable.  No areas of necrosis/haemorrhage or definite dedifferentiation are identified macroscopically. 
Blocks: 1 to 3 - lateral margin; 4 to 6 - posterior margin; 7 to 9 - superior margin; 10 to 12 - medial margin; 13 to 15 - inferior margin; 16 to 18 - anterior margin; 19 - vein margin; 20 - ureteric margin; 21 to 23 - fatty tissue to kidney; 24 to 34 - further representative kidney; 35 and 36 - adrenal gland to margin with tumour; 37 - tumour bank.
B.  Specimen labelled "Retroperitoneal fat", consists of a piece of unorientated fatty tissue measuring 110 x 85 x 20mm.  One side there is shiny ?peritoneal surface over approximately the specimen.  The cut surface reveals fatty tissue for the entire specimen.  No definite lesions are identified.Representative sections in 5 blocks.  
(TO: KM;HE/vo 16.10.65) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof J Mugnolo & Dr J Simerly):
A. The intraabdominal tumour is a well differentiated liposarcoma with lipoma-like and sclerosing components.  The lipoma-like componentmakes up approximately 80% of the tumour and consists of adipocytes of variable sizes, occasional lipoblasts and scattered hyperchromatic pleomorphic nuclei.  Within intervening fibrous septa there are numerous pleomorphic spindled to plump hyperchromatic cells.  The sclerosing component accounts for approximately 20% of the tumour and consists of a sclerotic background which appears oedematous in large areas with a disorganised population of large pleomorphic hyperchromatic cells, many of which are multinucleated.  
Focal dystrophic calcifications are identified; however there are no areas of dedifferentiation.  
The liposarcoma entraps the right kidney and adrenal gland and is present at the renal vein resection margin.  The renal sinus does not appear involved. 
Surgical margins are difficult to assess in areas where there is only lipomatoustissue at the inked margins.  However all surgical margins (anterior, posterior, medial, lateral, inferior and superior) appear involved with liposarcoma.  A sclerosing component is present focally at the margins, with occasional large, hyperchromatic cells in fibrous tissue noted in some areas.  
There is mild patchy interstitial fibrosis within thekidney but otherwise the renal parenchyma is unremarkable.  There is mild nodular hyperplasia of the right adrenal cortex.  
B.  Sections show lipomatous tissue with a mild variation in adipocyte size.  There are scattered enlarged hyperchromatic adipocyte nuclei and cells within fibrous stroma, similar to that seen in specimen A and is consistent with well differentiated liposarcoma of lipoma-like subtype.  The margins appear positive. 
Dr J Gillette has seen representative sections and agrees with this diagnosis. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right nephrectomy and intraabdominal tumour:  
	- Well differentiated liposarcoma with lipoma-like and sclerosing components
	- No areas of dedifferentiation identified. 
- Positive surgical resection margins (anterior, posterior, medial, lateral, inferior and superior)
B. Retroperitoneal fat:
	- Well differentiated liposarcoma
	- Margins positive

