Episode No:  15Q686631B
1566866.IEB

Mezzinni, SEBASTIAN 
Lab No:  15Q68663
Pickerel
PARRAMATTA  New South Wales  2830
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  27/6/2036
Sex:  M
Collected: 22/10/2065 at :
Location:  MED/SURGERY WARD-EMERALD HOSPITAL
DR Arnold Michele Marguardt
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
Excision of mass right thigh (mass within vastus intermedius).  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right thigh mass 12 o'clock short long deep" and consists of an orientated piece of fibroadipose tissue including muscle measuring 110mm (superior to inferior) x 65mm (medial to lateral) x 35mm (superficial to deep).There is a suture marking superior and a long stitch marking deep.  The deep aspect is inked black, the superficial surface inked blue, the 3 o'clock edge inked red and the 9 o'clock green.  The specimen is serially sectioned from 12 to6 o'clock.  On sectioning there is a diffuse mass occupying a majority of the excision and measuring approximately 50 x 30 x 95mm.  The tumour has a variegated appearance with a gelatinous and glistening cut surface.  There are also sclerotic areas and areas of haemorrhage noted.  There is a thin rim of muscle present posteriorly.  The tumour appears to abut the deep, 9 o'clock, 3 o'clock and superficial margins.  It is 10mm from the 12 o'clock (superior) margin and approximately 8mm from the 6 o'clock margin.  Representative sections.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - 12 o'clock (superior) margin from 3 o'clock to 6 o'clock; 4 & 5 - (paired blocks) slice four; 6 to 8 - (paired blocks)slice seven; 9 to 11 - (paired blocks) slice ten; 12 to 14 - (composite blocks) slice thirteen; 15 & 16 - (paired blocks) slice sixteen; 17 to 19 - slice seventeen 6 o'clock from 3 to 9 o'clock; 20 - representative haemorrhagic area slice twelve; 21 - tumour for biobank.  
Note:  fresh specimen was sampled for cytogenetics.  Please seen specimen diagram.  (TO:TP; EU/ta 23/10/65) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr D Gilio): 
Sections show a large arteriovenous malformation.  The AVM has some large, medium sized and small muscular arteries and arterioles but consists mainly of veins.  The veins aremainly small but there are also some medium sized and large muscular veins present.  Small veins tend to be in lobules with associated fat and myxoid stroma.  Also present around some small muscular veins are lobular proliferations of small capillary sized vessels, with associated myxoid stroma.  
Many of the larger veins have unusually thick muscular walls.  
Medium sized and small muscular arteries in the mass also tend to be thick walled, with medial hypertrophy and also mild intimal thickening.  Some small muscular arteries and arterioles have an abnormal structurewith smooth muscle being present internal to the internal elastic lamina.          
Some larger vessels in the mass contain weakly birefringent embolic material with associated thrombus.  Embolic material is seen in a few medium sized and small, markedly thick walled muscular arteries (eg blocks 14, 19), but many of the embolised vessels have the structure of veins rather than arteries; these vessels have a thickened intima, sometimes a hyalinised poorly defined wall, and lack an internal elastic lamina.  
    
Throughout the mass, between the lobules and between larger vessels, there is dense fibrousstroma in which occasional, scattered, very atrophic muscle fibres are identified.  Within the dense fibrous tissue there are also some occluded and obliterated vessels, their previous presence only being identifiable with elastic stains.  There is only mild, patchy chronic inflammation throughout the mass.  
The malformation extends to all excision margins.  There is no evidence of malignancy.  

DIAGNOSIS:
Right thigh:  Large arteriovenous malformation.  

