
Episode No:  26J128743W
2631287.LIW

Matacale, DEREK ONITA 
Lab No:  26J12874
Falling Run
BUNDABERG  QLD  4017
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  28/11/2039
Sex:  F
Collected: 16/10/2065 at 21:37
Location:  3 ARRIETTA CLOSE-MONA VALE HOSPITAL
DR Sergio David Gaunce
Distribution:  

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:  (3.11.65)


CLINICAL:
Seg V & VI liver resection - ?HCC.  HCV.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Liver segment V and VI" consists of a partial liver resection, 155 x 105 x 65mm, weighing 368g.  The resection margin is inked blue.  Within the liver isa circumscribed multinodular tumour, 55 x 48 x 75mm.  The tumour has a dominant nodule which is 40mm across with multiple surrounding smaller nodules.  The tumour abuts the overlying capsule.  The tumour is 20mm clear of the resection margin.  The uninvolved liver appears unremarkable.
Blocks:  1 - uninvolved liver; 2 - tumour with closest margin; 3 to 5 - largest nodule of tumour; 6 & 7 - tumour with capsule; 8 & 9 - periphery oftumour; (TO: ID; MA/rt 19.10.65)
The specimen was examined a second time. There is a single 40mm nodule with other small nodules over a 75mm, as previously described.
Blocks 10 to 15 - further sections of tumour.
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr F Sisemore):
Sections show a 75 mm hepatocellular lesion.  The majority of the lesion is composed of trabeculae 1 to 2 cells thick, resembling a hepatocellular adenoma. No portal tracts are seen. In some areas (e.g. block 6), thelesion shows increased cellularity, and is composed of hepatocytes with mild nuclear atypia and raised nuclear cytoplasmic ratio, consistent with small cell change. The trabeculae in these areas appear to be 4 to 5 cells thick.
Focal capillarisation is present on CD31/CD34 staining. Bile canaliculi are seen on CD10 staining. The tumour cells are positive for HepPar1. Melan A is negative. Beta-catenin staining is confined to the cell membranes. No nuclear staining is present.
The lesion is 16mm clear of the surgical margin.
The uninvolved liver shows mild chronic hepatitis, consistent the history of hepatitis C. There is mild fibrous expansion chronic inflammation ofthe portal tracts. Mild focal interface activity and minimal focal lobular activity are present.  Perls, orcein, diPAS and rhodamine stains are unremarkable.
ISHAK MODIFIED H.A.I. SCORE:
Grading:  Necroinflammatory Scores

Periportal or periseptal interface hepatitis (piecemeal necrosis):
Score:	
1- 	Mild (focal, few portal areas)
Confluent necrosis:
Score:	
0-         Absent
				
Focal (spotty) lytic necrosis, apoptosis and focal inflammation:
Score:	
1-        One focus or less per 10X objective
Portal inflammation:
Score:
1-         Mild, some or all portal areas
 	
Staging:  Architectural changes, fibrosis and cirrhosis
Stage:
1-	Fibrous expansion of some portal areas, withor without short fibrous septa
COMMENT
Thefindings are of a hepatocellular neoplasm. There are focal changes at least in keeping with a high grade dysplastic nodule, clear of the margins.  The differential diagnosis of an early well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma cannot be excluded.
Slides and a tissue block will be sent to Dr DELMER Kiesow, PERI-OPERATIVEUNIT Pathology, ACT, for expert review.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:  (3.11.65)
Report from Douglass Hanly Moir Pathology Pathology, COFFS HARBOUR:
Reported by Dr Lawerence IVERS:
Clinical notes:  
Enlarging liver lesion.  Background Hepatitis C (non-cirrhotic) ?HCC, ?adenoma with dysplasia.  
Macroscopic:
Received from Dr FIDEL Moorehouse, The Progressive Corporation -KINGSTON CENTRE GYMPIE, 26 slides labelled 26j12874.
Microscopic:
Thank you for referring this case.  I interpret the entire lesion as hepatocellular carcinoma, much of it well differentiated but with small areas that are Edmondson-Steiner Grade 3 (see section 1).  Nuclear crowding, cytoplasmic basophilia and some broad trabeculae are distinctive features, and the lesion shows multifocal invasion of the surrounding liver parenchyma. No definite venous invasion is seen.
As you noted,the adjacent liver shows features of chronic hepatitis C with mild fibrosis but no cirrhosis.	-
Margins appear clear.
Summary:
Liver Segment V, VI: Hepatocellular carcinoma


