
Episode No:  85G295399A
8522953.YYA

Annett, Neil 
Lab No:  85G29539
Fir
GLADSTONESouth Australia  5340
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/7/2000
Sex:  M
Collected: 27/05/2065 at 15:17
Location:  Cytogenetics-NORTHAMPTON HOSPITAL
DR BEN MIKE EVERITT
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:  (29.6.65)


ADDITIONAL REPORT:  (25.6.65)


CLINICAL:
Right arm extensor compartment sarcoma.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right forearm sarcoma extensor compartment stitch proximal" consists of an orientated muscle tissue with an overlying skin measuring 95mm (proximal to distal) x 65mm (medial to lateral) x 35mm (superficial to deep).  The overlying skin measures 55mm x 10mm.  In the deep part of the specimen there is a bare area with no muscle around it (surgical registrar informed that the area is sitting on the ulna).  The superficial surface is inked blue and deep surface is inked black with an exception of a bare area with no muscle and that area is inked red.  There is one suture in place.  The specimen has been sliced into 13 slices from proximal to distal.  Cut surface shows circumscribed lesion with mucoid material measuring 60mm x 38mm x 35mm in slice 3 to slice 13.  The tumour abuts the bare area and lies <1mm from the deep margin, 3mm from the superficial surface.  The rest of the tissue is unremarkable.
Blocks:  1 to 6 - RS of slice one; 7 - RS of slice two; 8 to 12 - slice three; 13 to 17 - slice four; 18 to 22 - slice five; 23 to 27 - slice six; 28 to 32 - slice seven; 33 & 34 - RS of slice eight; 35 & 36 - RS of slice ten; 37 to 38 - RS of slice twelve; 39 to 46 - RS of slice thirteen (all of the lesion in slice thirteen embedded); 47 - reserved block 
B.  Specimen labelled "Intra osseous membrane marking stitch proximal" consists of tan brown tissue orientated with suture onone end measuring 30mm x 10mm x 5mm.  There is one suture in place designated proximal.  One surface is inked blue and opposite surface is inked black.  Specimen sliced into nine slices  from proximal to distal.  AE blocks 1 to 4.  (TO:BU; GD/rt 28.5.65)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof V Slaughterbeck):
A. The sections of skeletal muscle show an infiltrative, myxoid soft tissue neoplasm composed of spindle cells with mild and focally moderate atypia within a myxoid matrix. Thin walled blood vessels are present within the lesion and occasional thicker walled, slightly curvilinear vessels are also seen, with mild perivascular condensation of tumour cells.
No heterologous elements are identified.
There is variable mitotic activity present. In many areas the mitotic activity is very low and only rare mitoses are identified.
In other areas, however, more frequent mitoses are present (approximately 3 per 10 hpf) including some foci with 4 mitoses per single high power field. 
The lesion also shows areas of infarctive-type necrosis and organising inflammation, consistent with previous biopsy.
The growth pattern appears circumscribed and nodular at low power, however, myxoid material tracks between musclefibres at the periphery of the tumour, most notably in the sections taken from the distal end of the specimen. There is also possibly involvement of nerve bundles, also near the distal end of the specimen, by myxoid matrix.
Tumour extends to the red-inked surface of the specimen, corresponding to the ulnar bed.
Tumour also extends to 2mm from the superficial margin and myxoid material is present between muscle fibres on the distal surface of the specimen.
Immunohistochemistry: 
S100 - Negative
CD34 - Negative
EMA - Very weak, focal staining
MIC 2 - Negative (to be repeated)
SMA - Negative
DESMIN - Focal weak staining
CAM 5.2 - Focalweak staining
AE1/AE3 - Focal staining
Pan Keratin - Focal staining
PSA - Negative
The immunopanel results are non-diagnostic in the context of a myxoid tumour. The presence of focal keratin expression is unusual. It is noted in the previous biopsy report by Dr V Journey at SEALS Pathology (ref 85229-53YY) that there was also focal staining for AE1/AE3 and Pan Keratins, raising the possibility of a myxoid monophasic synovial sarcoma. Although the histological features are not diagnostic of synovial sarcoma, the focal keratin expression raises this as a possible differential diagnosis.
The other main consideration is a myxofibrosarcoma. 
Intramuscular myxoma would tend to be excluded by the variable and focally increased mitotic activity and infiltrative edge.
A provisional result was discussed with Dr V Lapa.
Dr V Withrow has also reviewed this case on his return from leave and concurs.
The case has been referred to WEIPA HOSPITAL Hospital for opinion and possible FISH analysis.
B. Section show skeletal muscle and fascia. A microscopic focus of myxoid material is present towards the centre of the tissue, possibly representing a small focus of tumour.
DIAGNOSIS: 
A. RIGHT FOREARM: MYXOID SOFT TISSUE TUMOUR - FAVOUR LOW GRADE MYXOFIBROSARCOMA (SEE ABOVE)
B. INTRAOSSEOUS MEMBRANE: POSSIBLE MICROSCOPIC FOCUS OF TUMOUR.
ADDITIONAL REPORT:  (25.6.65)
Report from BEAUDESERT HOSPITAL Hospital, BALLARAT:
Reported by A/Prof Gus Mone (19.6.65)
MICROSCOPIC REPORT
Thank you for the opportunity to puzzle over this fascinating case.  I have shown it to several other pathologists (Prof V Piggie and Dr V Gazitano) in the department and at our Soft Tissue Meeting (Prof V Veles).  We agree with your description and differentials.
There is a myxoid neoplasm of moderate cellularity and atypia composed of spindle cells and thin blood vessels.  Whilst it has an apparent nodularity on low power, on higher power it is clearly infiltrative.  Areas of necrosis and inflammation are present. The focus of mitotic activity is noted, but elsewhere mitotic figures are sparse.  Our AE1/AE3 keratin shows definite foci of strongly positive staining like yours. MUC4 immunostain (which is typically positive in low grade fibromyxoid sarcoma) was performed and was negative.  INI-1 was positive, (against epithelioid sarcoma).
The main diagnoses we considered were myxofibrosarcoma and synovial sarcoma. We agree that sarcomatoid carcinoma could be a possible diagnoses purely based on the keratin staining as the morphology is not typical.
FISH testing for synovial sarcoma is in progress and a supplementary report will be issued.
COMMENT
Please correlate with clinical, operative and ancillary test findings.
SUMMARY
Forearm - Myxoid sarcoma; pleasesee report.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:  (29.6.65)
Report from TEXAS HOSPITAL MULTIPURPOSE HEALTH SERVICEHospital:
Reported by Prof Kulin V'Berti (24/6/65)
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 
Specimen tested:  85G29539 A10
FISH Probe:
Vysis LSI SS18 Break Apart Probe Kit (Abbott Molecular)
FISH Result:
NEGATIVE for SS18 Rearrangement
Interphase FISH for SS18 (18q11.2) was performed on this tumour and there was no evidence of significant rearrangement.
Comment:  Over 90% of synovial sarcomas show rearrangement of SS18 (reviewed in Fisher et al, Virchows Arch (2010) 456:153-166).
SUPPLEMENTARY SUMMARY
FISH Result:  NEGATIVE for SS18 Rearrangement.

