
EpisodeNo:  60M958422L
6049584.GFL

Mobus, Tyree 
Lab No:  60M95842
Marstan Moor
SALE  Western Australia  2426
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  27/6/1985
Sex:  M
Collected: 07/08/2065 at 09:23
Location:  HAPS-BARADINE MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
DR Modesta Rosaura BROOKIE
Distribution:  

CLINICAL:
COJ adenocarcinoma - oesophagectomy.  
Rightcolon cancer - right hemi colectomy.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy"consists of terminal ileum (55mm in length, 35mm in circumference), ascending colon (275mm in length, 70mm in diameter), vermiform appendix (55mm in length, 7mm in diameter) and mesentery up to 10mm in width.  Some omentum is present.  Situated 98mm from the distal resection margin there is a flat ulcerated tumour 27 x 25mm occupying approximately 30% of the bowel circumference.  The tumour invades through the muscularis propria into the pericolic fat.  The overlying mesothelial lined surface is smooth.  The tumour is 150mm from the apical mesenteric margin.
Blocks:  1 - four apical lymph nodes; 2 - lymph node near apex of mesentery; 3 - proximal and distal resection margin; 4 valve; 5 to 9 - tumour (80% embedded); 10 - two lymph nodes near tumour; 11 - two lymph nodes near tumour; 12 - five lymph nodes; 13 - four lymph nodes; 14 - one lymph node; 15 - one lymph node bisected; 16 - appendix LS tip + TS mid; 17 to19 - remainder of proximal margin LS; 20 - terminal ileum adjacent to ileocaecal valve; 21 - Ileocaecal valve.
B.  Specimen labelled "Common hepatic artery node" consists of two fragments of tan to fatty tissue 6mm and 5mm.  AE 1 block.
C.  Specimen labelled "Left paratracheal lymph node" consists of a soft lymph node 20mm in maximum dimension.  Quadrisected TS.  AE 1 block.
D.  Specimen labelled "Oesophagogastrostomy" consists of distal oesophagus and proximal stomach 85mm in length.  The squamocolumnar junction is 40mm from the proximal margin.  The oesophagus is 45mm in width at the proximal margin and 90mm at the distal margin of stomach.  Situated at the squamocolumnar junction there is a depressed ulcerated and centrally exophytic tumour on the posterior wall.  The ulceration measures 52mm circumferentially and 42mm from proximal to distal. The exophytic/polypoid component measures 17mm circumferentially and 22mm from proximal to distal.  The tumour is 29mm from the proximal margin and 17mm from the distal margin.  On sectioning, the tumour extends to 14mm in depth, involving the muscularis propria and possibly subserosa.  The tumour appears well clear of the radial margin by at least 10mm.  Several enlarged lymph nodes are present, including a macroscopically involved lymph node at the distal edge of the tumour.  The tumour is 80% embedded.  Specimen seen by Dr Justin COCKBURN.  Photograph taken with blocking diagram supplied.
Blocks:  1 to 4 - full longitudinal face left posterior; 5 to 8 - full longitudinal face central posterior; 9 to 12 - full longitudinal face right posterior; 13 to 14 - right posterior with distal margin;15 to 16 - right lateral with distal margin; 17 to 18 - left posterior with distal margin; 19 - left lateral proximal margin; 20 - right lateral proximal margin; 21 - random uninvolved stomach with distal margin left anterior; 22 - two lymph nodes near tumour; 23 to 24 - possible blood clot or lymph node near tumour; 25 - one lymph node at cardia; 26 - one lymph node at cardia; 27 - one macroscopicallyinvolved lymph node at cardia; 28 - two oesophageal lymph nodes; 29 - one oesophageal lymph node.
E.  Specimen labelled "Distal donut" consists of two mucosal donuts21 x 19 x 10mm and 21 x 15 x 6mm.  No focal abnormality on sectioning.  AE.
Blocks:  1 - smaller donut whole; 2 to 3 - larger donut bisected.
(TO: DR; QB/rt 7.8.65)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr S Stinger)
A.  The 27mm ascending colon tumour is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. A synoptic report for colonic carcinoma follows:
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR COLONIC ADENOCARCINOMA
Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour: Ascending colon. 
Maximum tumour diameter: 27mm.
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 98mm (distal resection margin - macroscopic). 
Tumour perforation: No.
Microscopic Description
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS.
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderately.
Local invasion
pT3  Beyond muscularis propria.
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved.
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Sixteen.	
Number of lymph nodes involved: None (0/16). 	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis.
The lymph nodes show no evidence of involvement by non-Hodgkin lymphoma. 
Lymphovascular invasion
Focus suspicious for (mural) lymphovascular space invasion is present (A6).

Perineural invasion
Absent.
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX  Cannot be assessed histologically.
Backgroundabnormalities/other comments
Multiple sections of the terminal ileum show focal nodular expansion of the lamina propria and mucosa by prominent lymphoid mucosa. The infiltrate contains numerous reactive appearing follicles and mixed infiltrate of B and T lymphocytes on immuno-histochemistry. The overall morphology and pattern of immunohistochemical staining is consistent with a reactive process and is considered most in keeping with prominent Peyer's patches. There is no diagnostic evidence of lymphoma. 
The appendix shows fibrous obliteration of the appendiceal tip. There is no evidence of acute appendicitis. 
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour.
Response to neoadjuvant therapy
Not applicable. 
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
TNM 7th Edition: pT3N0Mx	

B.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue. No lymph node is present for assessment. 
C.  Sections of the left paratracheal lymph node show patchy anthrasilicosis. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
D.  The gastro-oesophageal tumour is a moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma arising on a background of gastric high grade dysplasia/carcinoma in situ. The majority of the tumour appears to involve the stomach and is staged as a gastric adenocarcinoma. A synoptic report for gastric carcinoma follows: 
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR GASTRIC CARCINOMA
Tumour characteristics
Tumour location: Proximal stomach (with focal COJ involvement). 
Histologic type (Lauren Classification): Intestinal type. 
Histologic grade (AJCC grading system): Moderately to poorly differentiated. 
Pattern of growth (Ming classification): Infiltrating. 
Maximum dimension: 52mm. 
Depth of invasion: 11mm.
Serosal involvement: Not identified (carcinoma is0.56mm from the serosa (D7)). 
Small vessel (capillary/lymphatic) invasion: Foci suspicious for LVSI present. 
Large vessel (vein/artery) invasion: Not identified. 
Perineural invasion: Present (D7). 

Margins
Distance of invasive carcinoma from resection margins
Proximal margin: 29mm (macroscopic). 
Distal margin: 5.5mm (microscopic) (D16). 
Nodes
Lymph nodes from main resection specimen: Metastatic carcinoma in one of twelve lymph nodes (1/12).  
Additional pathological findings
The gastric mucosa overlying and adjacent to the tumour shows areas of high grade dysplasia/intramucosal carcinoma. 
Gastritis (type): Present (mild non-specific chronic gastritis). 
Helicobacter infection: Not identified. 
Intestinal metaplasia: Present. 
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Pathologic Staging (pTNM, AJCC 7th edition 2010): Stage: IIA (pT3N1Mx)
E.  Sections of the "donuts" show unremarkable squamous mucosa overlying lamina propria and muscularis propria (?oesophageal wall). There are no atypical feature sof evidence of malignancy. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right hemi-colectomy: 
27mm pT3 moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the ascending colon. 
No evidence of malignancy in sixteen lymph nodes (0/16).
Margins appear clear of tumour. 
Low risk of microsatellite instability. 

B.  Common hepatic artery node: No lymph node present for assessment. 

C.  Left paratracheal lymph node: Anthrasilicosis. No evidence of malignancy (0/1). 

D.  Oesophagogastrectomy:
52mm, pTNM Stage 2A, moderately to poorly differentiated proximal gastric adenocarcinoma arising on a background of multifocal high grade gastric dysplasia and intestinal metaplasia. 
Focal perineural invasion and changes suspicious for lymphovascular space invasion. 
Metastatic adenocarcinoma in one of twelve lymph nodes (1/12). 
Clear of proximal and distal margins and very close to gastric serosa (0.56mm). 

E.  Distal donut: No evidence of malignancy. 


