Episode No:  27J079480U
2730794.VAU

Bisbee, GENE GABRIEL 
Lab No:  27J07948
Tories
SWAN HILL  New South Wales  7210
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  26/2/1997
Sex:  F
Collected: 28/08/2065 at 09:56
Location:  Palms-MODBURY HOSPITAL
DR Morris JAN Wasmus
Distribution:  NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Locally advanced sigmoid tumour.  En bloc dissection of uterus, ovaries, sigmoid and upper rectum.  Low anterior resection with uterusand ovaries and appendix.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Lower anterior resection + hysterectomy" consists of an en bloc resection of rectosigmoid, uterus and bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries.  The bowel is 510mm in length, with mesocolon 80mm in width.  The anterior peritoneal reflection is not included.  The proximal bowel is dilated to a circumference of 95mm with flattened mucosal folds, while the distal portion has a circumference of 55mm.  Within the distal sigmoid colon is a circumferential constricting tumour 95 x 90 x 25mm.  The tumour has a predominately gelatinous appearance.  The tumour infiltrates through the bowel wall forming a malignant adhesion to a segment of rectum; it invades through the wall of the adherent rectum and ulcerates the mucosa.  The mesocolon of the bowel at the site of the adhesion is extensively infiltrated by tumour.  The tumour within the mesocolon is 5mm clear of the posterior mesocolon margin and is 40mm clear of the distal margin.  The tumour is well clear of the proximal margin.  Over the left anterolateral mesocolon there is a 40mm oversewn defect.  
The uterus is 70 x 70 x 40mm, and the ectocervix is not identified.  The endometrium appears atrophic and the myometrium is up to 20mm thick.  The uterine body is adherent to the bowel over a thin narrow pedicle.  The tumour appears to infiltrateinto the outer myometrium.  The right fallopian tube is 65mm in length and 15mm external diameter and the right ovary is 35 x 25 x 15mm.  The left fallopian tube is 60mm in length and 10mm external diameter, and the left ovary is 35 x20 x 15mm.  Possible 1mm serosal nodules are seen over the uterine fundus, right ovary and fallopian tube.  
The appendix is received as a separate specimen and is 50mm in length and 7mm diameter.  Also received is a separate segment of bowel 45mm across and 20mm in length.  
The anterior lower uterine margin and posterior mesocolon are inked blue.  The posterior lower uterine segment is inked black.  An area of roughened left adnexal serosa is inked green.  
Blocks: 1 - proximal margin; 2 - distal margin; 3 - distal appendix; 4 - proximal appendix; 5 - tumour with uninvolved rectal mucosa; 6 and 7 - tumour at site of adhesion between sigmoid colon and rectum; 8 - tumour in sigmoid colon; 9 and 10 - paired sections tumour and cross section through uterus (lower uterine margin in block 10); 11 to 13 - further sections tumour with uterus; 14 - uterine funduswith ?serosal nodules; 15 - uninvolved endomyometrium; 16 and 17 - right fallopian tube; 18 and 19 - right ovary; 20 and 21 - left fallopian tube; 22 and 23 - left ovary with tumour and bowel; 24 and 25- tumour with closest posterior mesocolon margin; 26 - tumour with mesocolon near oversewn defect; 27 - apical tissue; 28 to 32 - one lymph node in each block; 33 to 36 - multiple lymph nodes.
B.  Specimen labelled "Internal iliac lymph node", consists of a lymph node 15mm across.  BAE 1 block.   (TO: GN;TS/vo 28.8.65) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr G Disalvi):
A.  Sections of the sigmoid tumour show moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.  Itpartly has a conventional appearance but much of it, over 50%,has abundant extracellular mucus so is overall a mucinous carcinoma.  It invades directly from the sigmoid into the adherent upper rectum.  There is inflammatory and fibroblastic tissue, with some foreign body reaction, in the pedicle between the involved sigmoid colon and the uterus, but no tumour is seen in this pedicle or invading into the adherent uterus.  At the described oversewn defect on the left anterolateral mesocolon there is fibrous and inflammatory tissue but no tumour is seen at the defect site.  A synoptic report follows:  
Macroscopic Description:

Maximum tumour diameter: 95mm
Distance from tumour to nearer cut end:  90mm
Tumour perforation:  No
For rectal tumours
Relation of tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection:	 Above
Microscopic Description

Type
Mucinous carcinoma
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate

Local invasion
pT4b  Tumour directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not involved
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:1mm
Lymph nodes
Number oflymph nodes present: 26	
Number of lymph nodes involved: 0	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Present in mesocolon (block A24).  
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
No cervix is included with the specimen.  The uterus has inactive endometrium and normal myometrium.  The fallopian tubes are oedematous but otherwise normal.  The ovaries are unremarkable.  The described small serosal nodules on the uterus, right ovary and tube are foci of organising fibrin.  No tumour isseen.  
The appendix has some serosal fibroblastic tissue but is otherwise unremarkable.  
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining.
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
B.  Sections show a lymph node with some reactive changes.  No tumour is seen. 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Lower anterior resection and hysterectomy:  Moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma of sigmoid colon directly invading adherent upper rectum.  No lymph node metastases (0/26).  pT4b pN0  pMX  R0.  
B.  Internal iliac lymph node:  No tumour (0/1).  
  
	






