Episode No:  12O742513F
1257425.CHF

Leewright, Nathanael Jed Gus 
Lab No:  12O74251
N Morgan
BROKEN HILL  SA  3042
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  30/9/2022
Sex:  M
Collected: 06/11/2065 at 14:41
Location:  Palms-BEAUDESERT HOSPITAL
PRO Noelia MARIA Durham
Distribution:     FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
CRC. Omentectomy, right hemicolectomy, sigmoid colectomy, small bowel resection. 
MACROSCOPIC:  
"HARTMANN'S, OMENTUM, RIGHT COLON". Received multiple tissue fragments all of which appears to be involved with a disseminated deposits on their serosal surfaces. The tissue fragments are; 
- Three segments of small bowel 65x25mm, 100x45mm and 260x60mm. The smaller fragment has multiple serosal deposits over an area of 30x12mm involving the wall and mesentery but not involving the mucosa or the longitudinal margins. The medium segment has a piece of fibrofatty tissue attached towards one end measuring 30x25x10mm with multiple firm white tumour nodules on the cut surface. Multiple white mesenteric nodules are identified. The mucosal surface and resection margins appear unremarkable. The longest segment has multiple adhesions surrounding a  nodule around which two bowel loops are adherent to each other. This area of adhesion is located 95 mm of the nearest resection margin. Multiple serosal nodules and mesenteric nodules are identified.
(1&2 small bowel shortest segment [1 TS each resection margin, 2 serosal nodules]; 3-5 medium segment [3 each resection margin LS, 4&5 nodules]; 6-8 longest small bowel segment [6 LS each resection margin, 7 area of adherent bowel loops, 8 serosal nodule]). 
- A right hemicolectomy specimen including terminal ileum, 75x25mm, caecum and ascending colon 75x80mm, appendix 70x10mm. Attached is a segment of small bowel with adherent pieces of skeletal muscle measuring 40x35x25mm , (presumed part of the abdominal wall). The small bowel measures 280x40mm. It is adherent to the mesentery and mesocolon ofterminal ileum/caecum with multiple adhesions and thick fibrous exudate. The appendix outer and cut surface reveals possible involvement of the appendix with firm white nodules. The cut surface of the skeletal muscle reveals a hard whitenodule extending from the outer surface of the skeletal muscle (?resection margin) to reach the wall of  the attached small bowel with no definite mucosal involvement. 
(9 terminal ileum resection margin; 10 caecum resectionmargin; 11 appendix TS Base LS tip; 12 appendix LS and TS tip; 13 caecum with caecum serosal node; 14 two LS resection margin of attached bowel segment; 15 attached small bowel segment with caecum mesentery nodule ; 16-19 continuous pieceskeletal muscle in relation to attached small bowel segment; 20 four lymph nodes).
- A segment of large bowel (left colon)  of a total length of 150mm and up to 25mm in maximum diameter.  The serosal surface is extensively ragged with multiple serosal nodules along the attached mesocolon. There is an area of tethered serosa located 80mm from one margin and 95mm from the other margin. The cut surface of this area reveals a mucinous tumour that is involving the full thickness of the bowel wall with probably mucosal ulceration (?primary site) in a circumferential manner and involving the underlying fat tissue extensively. This tumour measures 25 mm in maximum diameter. 
(21 LS of each resection margin; 22&23 full face area of circumferential tumour involvement; 24&25 continuous piece serosal involvement in relation to bowel wall; 26 two lymph nodes). 
- A stoma measuring 45x40mm with two associated loopsof bowel measuring 180 mm and 105mm. The underlying fatty tissue includes pieces of skeletal muscle (part of the abdominal wall) measuring 32x25x25mm. The cut surface of this skeletal muscle reveals a tumour with hard white cut surface extending to reach the wall of  the adjacent bowel segment. Multiple isolated tumour deposits are noted along the associated mesentery. 
(27 LS shorter length resection margin; 28 LS longer length resection margin; 29-31 continuous piece stomal opening; 32&33 continuous piece skeletal muscle tumour with attached bowel).
- Attached multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue representing omentum measuring 250x150x50mm. Diffuse areas of involvement by firm andhard white nodules are identified along the serosal surface and confirmed on cut surface.
(34&35 representative samples, 36-43 multiple further blocks of nodes and sigmoid tumour). RS (M-43/CJ/ht).
MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr C Naftel)
Histology shows a moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma with apparent origin within presumed sigmoid colon where there is an area of mucosal dysplasia consistent withpre-existing adenoma. Mucinous adenocarcinoma extends through the muscularis propria focally reaching the serosal surface with extensive and widespread deposits of metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma over the serosal surface of small bowel, left colon, within the appendix, mesentery, and within fibrous scar tissue at the anastomosis between the small bowel and skin of the stoma. Some fibrous fascial tissue (presumed anterior abdominal wall) is also infiltrated by metastatic adenocarcinoma which stops short of reaching adjacent skeletal muscle. Six of 22 nodes contain deposits of metastatic carcinoma, several of which are well-circumscribed deposits of mucinous adenocarcinoma presumed to be entirely replaced lymph nodes for staging purposes. 
SUMMARY

MICROSCOPIC:

Tumour type:  Mucinous adenocarcinoma 
Histologic grade:  Moderately differentiated 
Depth of invasion: pT4. Tumour penetrates the surface of visceral peritoneum. 
Peritoneal surface involvement:  Present
Tumour infiltrating lymphocytes: Low-density
Excision Margins:  Not applicable
Donuts:  Not received
Lymph nodes:  
Number positive:  	6
Total number:  	22
Apical node:  		Not identified
Intramural vein invasion: Not identified  
Extramural vein invasion:  Not identified
Small vessel (lymphatic) invasion:  Not identified
Perineural invasion:  Not identified
Distant metastases:  Present. Small bowel, appendix, anterior abdominal wall.
Other findings:  
Polyps:  An area of adenoma is seen overlying the adenocarcinoma within sigmoid. 
Remote colon:  No other abnormality.
Other:  Nil
Treatment effect:  Not applicable
Mismatch repair enzymes, Immunostains:  to follow
Synthesis/stage (AJCC/UICC TNM 7):  
TNM stage:  pT4a   pN2a   pM1b
Stage grouping:  IV B
DIAGNOSIS:  
HARTMANN'S, OMENTUM, RIGHT COLON
- MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA (OF PRESUMED SIGMOID COLON) WITH MULTIPLE METASTATIC DEPOSITS IN SMALL BOWEL, COLON, MESENTERY, APPENDIX AND ABDOMINAL WALL.
11/11/65 cy 
Supplementary report: 
Immunostains for MSI proteins (Lennar Corporation CULCAIRN MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE HOSPITAL Lab; block: 24)
MLH1: normal (positive staining)
PMS2: normal (positive staining)
MSH2: normal (positive staining)
MSH6: normal (positive staining)
Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presenceof a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme. 
Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype. 
The antibodies used arenot fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible.
18.11.2065

