Episode No:  02T065377K
0270653.UUK

Acuff, LAUREN 
Lab No:  02T06537,02T06537
Marieba
WERRIBEE  NT  3056
Specimen: Fluid,Tissue
D.O.B:  22/4/1991
Sex:  F
Collected: 12/2/2065 at :
Location:  DICKINSON 3 NORTH - FORBES DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR Leandro SPENCER Mannan
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
yo lady with b/g of rectal cancer (T3N2) in 2060.  Now presented with abdo pain and distension with 24cm ovarian mass on (illegible) with omental caking.  At OT - large cystic mass arising from right ovary.  ?new primary vs recurrence.  Previous surgery for anterior resection of colon/rectal cancer.  Currently abdo pain, bloating.  CT scan showed 24 mass on right ovary-.  Medical history HTN, osteoporosis.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right ovary and tube" consists of acystic ovary measuring 210 x 160 x 35mm and a tube measuring 75mm in length.  There is a defect in the wall of the cyst with necrotic material protruding.  The cut surface of the mass shows a solid tumour with abundant necrotic material.  Two representative sections for frozen section.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - two representative sections; 3 -tube; 4 to 10 - further representative sections of tumour; 11 - reserve block. 
 
B.  Specimen labelled "Left tube, ovary, cervix and uterus" consists of a uterus with attached cervix and left tube and ovary (received opened) and weighing 38g in total.  The uterus measuring 78 x 55 x 25mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.The ectocervix measures 33 x 27mm and appears unremarkable.  The cut surface reveals endometrium is 2mm in maximal thickness over a total wall thickness of 18mm.  The left fallopian tube measures 45mm in length with a maximum external diameter of 5mm.  The left ovary measures 28 x 15 x 14mm and the cut surface appears unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - full LS anterior body and cervix; 4 to 6 - LS posterior body and cervix; 7 - left tube; 8 - left ovary.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Appendix" consists of an appendix measuring 55mm in length with a maximal external diameter of 12mm.  The tip appears somewhat dilated with a maximum external diameter of 12mm.  The serosal has small amounts of haemorrhage attached.  The maximum thickness of the wall is 3mm.  In the tip there appear possible areas of dilatation with mucinous areas within them.  The lumen contains small amounts of mucinous material and faecal material. 
Blocks: 1 - LS tip; 2 - mid third; 3 - TS resection margin and LS proximal third.  AE.   
 
D.  Specimen labelled"Omentum" consists of a piece of omental tissue measuring 200 x 135 x 25mm.  The cut surface reveals numerous large cream deposits arranged with fat.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.   (TO OJ: WB/ta 13/2/65)  
 
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma - possible colorectal metastasis versus endometrial adenocarcinoma.
Result to Anaesthetist by Dr K Fritzpatrick at 9:45am on 12/02/65.
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr K Genz)
A.  Sections of the right ovary show extensive involvement by moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. The carcinoma consists of malignant carcinoma cells arranged in infiltrative complex cribriform glands and papilliform structures which are associated with extensive necrosis.The fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality. The carcinoma cells are CK20 positive and CK7 negative. 
B.  The ectocervix and endocervix show no significant abnormality. The endometrium is weakly proliferative with extensive cystic atrophy and focal tubal metaplasia. The myometrium shows foci of adenomyosis. There are foci of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma focally on the uterine serosa, as well as, involving the left ovarian stroma and surface. The left fallopiantube shows no significant abnormality. 
C.  Sections of appendix show multiple foci of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. 
D.  Sections of omentum show extensive involvement by moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. 
COMMENT:
The right ovary, uterine serosa, left ovary, appendix and omentum show involvement by metastatic adenocarcinoma. No previous pathology is present for direct comparison on the Lyondell Chemical system, however, theoverall morphology and pattern of immunohistochemical staining, would be consistent with primary colorectal origin. 
Please correlate with clinical, imaging and previous pathology findings. 

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right ovary and fallopian tube: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 

B.  Uterus, left ovary and fallopian tube: Metastatic carcinoma of the uterine serosa and ovarian stroma/surface. 

C.  Appendix: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 

D.  Omentum: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 
Please see comment. 

