
Episode No:  39D607352M
3916073.NGM

Birks, Baladji 
Lab No:  39D60735
Falcon
CULBURRA  QLD  3938
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  5/3/2027
Sex:  F
Collected: 06/11/2065 at 15:26
Location:  PERI-OPERATIVEUNIT-BOX HILL HOSPITAL
DR Randolph Benito Pemberton
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Klastskin cholangiocarcinoma.   Extended left hemi hepatectomy with hilar lymph node dissection.  Stent in hepatic duct.  
Specimen orientation was demonstrated by DrJ Chanofsky to Dr J Bitzer.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen is unlabelled as to site or nature and consists of an extended left hemi hepatectomy specimen weighing 408g in total and which includes en bloc gallbladder and overlying portion of right lobe of liver, as well as caudate lobe, 45 x 35 x 30mm. in addition to the left lobe.  The liver measures 165 x 135 x 45mm.  The gallbladder is 80 x 35 x 35mm.  There is a stent within the common hepatic/bile duct.  There is an indurated mass in the periductal area, 25 x 20 x 15mm, which distends the right hepatic duct.  The maximum extent of tumour is 76 x 20 x 50mm.  The tumour infiltrates into the anterior and inferior right lobeof the liver, probably along the biliary duct system.  The tumour undermines the wall of the gallbladder, without macroscopic evidence of gallbladder wall invasion.  The tumour is4mm clear of the right posterior hepatic margin.  The right lobe appears otherwise unremarkable.  The left hepatic duct is difficult to definitively identify.  The left lobe of the liver shows marked dilatation of the biliary ducts, with ducts up to 8mm in diameter.  No tumour is seen within the left lobe of the liver.  The right hepatic margin is inked black.  The periductal soft tissue is inked blue.  The common bile duct and right hepatic duct margins are inked red. 
  
Blocks: 1 - shave common bile duct margin (approx. 2mm thick); 2 - shave right hepatic duct margin(approx. 2mm thick);; 3 - cystic duct and possible cystic duct lymph node; 4 - gallbladder body; 5 -gallbladder fundus; 6 to 8 - common bile duct serially embedded from distal to proximal; 9 & 10 - tumour within common hepatic ductjust proximal to level of cystic duct; 11 to 13 - remainder of right hepatic duct tumour serially embedded towards right hepatic duct margin (approx. 3mm thick); 14 to 18 - full face of tumour involving anterior and inferior right lobe of liver, corresponding to level of block 11; 19 to 22 - right lobe liver tumour with gallbladder; 23 - tumour with closest right hepatic margin; 24 - further section right lobe tumour towards hilum with possible intraductal component; 25 &26 - tumour right lobe towards hilum, corresponding to level of block 9 - 27 - further section of intraductal right lobe tumour; 28 - uninvolved right lobe liver; 29 - central left lobe; 30 & 31 - further sections left lobe of liver.  (Specimen photographs taken).  
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Hilar node" consists of a piece of adipose tissue measuring 40 x 30 x 15mm.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified, the largest being 22mm across.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - largest lymph node; 3 - one lymph node; 4 to 6 - multiple lymph nodes.   (TO: JF; BE/ta 9/11/65) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr J Petterson): 
A & B.  The tumour within the hilar biliary ducts and right lobe of liver is extensively sampled.  The 76mm tumour is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma which expands the right and left hepatic ducts as a circumscribed polypoid tumour with a smooth contour and which also shows extensive invasion of the right lobe of liver.  
With the extrahepatic biliary tree the tumour is mostly confined within, and almost completely occludes, the lumen of the ducts, including intraductal extension and expansion of the right hepatic duct, presumably replacing the left duct, which was difficult to identify grossly due to distortion of anatomy, and the common hepatic duct, just proximal to the union with the cystic duct.  The common bile duct is uninvolved.  There is possible focal invasion of the superficial fibromuscular wall of the right hepatic duct (Block A11) where the tumour is 0.6mm from the periduct surface.  The tumour shows continuity with (A14), or focally undermines (A24) the residual lining epithelium of these ducts, including the right hepatic duct, and whilst there is reactive atypia of the residual lining epithelium no definite dysplasia is seen.  From the right hepatic duct the tumour shows extensive contiguous invasion of the inferior part of the right lobe of liver, overlying the gallbladder fossa but not involving intervening fibroadipose tissue.  The bulk of the tumour is in the liver.
Within the ducts the tumour is arranged in solid, papillary and back to back complex tubular pattern with thin intervening fibrovascular septa.  The tubular structures contain both eosinophilic colloid-like dPAS and mucicarmine negative secretions, however, there is also true glandular differentiation with dPAS and mucicarmine positive intraluminal mucin.  The tumour cellsdisplay round to irregular moderately pleomorphic nuclei, with vesicular chromatin, occasional small nucleoli and a moderate amount of pale to eosinophilic granular cytoplasm.  There is patchy necrosis within nests within the intraductal component and more extensive necrosis is the intrahepatic tumour.  The intrahepatic component shows similar morphology with invasion in sheets and large nodules within a desmoplastic stroma.  Although the intrahepatic tumour has a linear arrangement, overlying the gallbladder fossa, no definite intraduct component is identified here.   There are foci of perineural invasion within the right lobe of liver (A19) and invasion of a medium sized vein within the liver (A26).  Elsewhere the tumour invades the wall of a vessel with an intact overlying endothelial layer (A21).
Immunohistochemistry:
In the presence of positive and adequate controls the tumour cells stain as follows:
Positive:  CK7 and CK19, mCEA (patchy highlights glandular lumina), E cadherin (preserved normal membranous pattern).
Negative:  CK20, HepPAR1, NSE, Synaptophysin (very patchy weak control), Chromogranin, CD56, ER, PR TTF1, SOX10, PAX8, B catenin (preserved membranous pattern with no abnormal nuclear translocation). 
Margins:
Invasive carcinoma/ or Biliary intraductal carcinoma
Common bile duct:  clear (at least 12mm)
Right hepatic duct:  2mm clear
Hepatic parenchymal (right posterior): 6mm clear (Block A23)
Dysplasia
Nil definite biliary dysplasia seen.
The adjacent liver and liver away from the tumour shows a partly preserved lobular architecture but with some architectural distortion with portal to portal linkage fibrosis and focal early nodule formation, more marked in the left lobe (Scheuer stage 3 of 4).  The linkage fibrosis includes orcein positive elastic fibres.  There is expansion of portal tract by a moderate mixedinflammatory cell infiltrate that includes lymphocytes, plasma cells, occasional eosinophils and neutrophils as well as a portal ductular reaction.  There is extensive portal non-caseating granulomatous inflammation seen in both the left and right lobes of the liver.  The granulomas do not appear centred on bile ducts and no lymphocytic cholangitis or bile duct epithelial damage is seen.  The granulomas are well formed, large, occasionally confluent and are composed of epithelioid histiocytes with admixed giant cells including of Langhans type, with scattered foci of central granular fibrinoid material but no definite caseating necrosis.  Reticulin deposition is seen within some granulomas and thereis also fibrosis around some granulomas.  No polarisable foreign material is seen.  No fungi or mycobacteria are seen on dPAS, MethAg, Fite or Truant's staining.  There is moderate interface activity.  Within the left lobe thereare changes consistent with large duct obstruction with dilated bile ducts, portal ductular reaction, periduct fibrosis and oedema with an mixed infiltrated that includes neutrophils and eosinophils.  Whilst there are rare canalicular bile plugs no periportal feathery degeneration or intraductal bile plugs are seen. Occasional ducts contain neutrophilic aggregates consistent with cholangitis (look up infection).  There is some PAS positive material within Kupffer cells however no significant lobular activity is seen.  No significant steatosis is seen. No copper or copper associated protein seen on Rhodanine or orcein staining.  No iron deposition seen on Perls staining.  No dPAS positive globules seen.
The gallbladder shows very mild chronic cholecystitis.
COMMENT:
The feature are those of a moderately to poorly differentitated adenocarcinoma. Although the morphology and immunoprofile are consistent with cholangiocarcinoma the morphology is rather unusual with a sheet-like solid papillary and complex tubular architecture.   Whilst there is a significant invasive hepatic component(approximately 75mm) there is also extensive hilar intraductal biliary tree involvement and this feature as well as the morphology raises the possibility of invasive cholangiocarcinoma arising from an intraductal papillary neoplasm.  Whilst MUC1 staining is unavailable the tumour is probably of pancreaticobilary phenotype.  Additionally there is florid granulomatous hepatitis and granulomatous lymphadenitis.  Although the granulomas are non-caseating and pathogenic organisms are not identified with special stains this does not exclude an infectious aetiology which requires correlation with the clinical, serological and with microbiological culture studies if clinically indicated.  That said the portal based nature, number and size of the granulomas and as well as involvement of hilar lymph nodes strongly raises the possibility of sarcoidosis which is nevertheless a diagnosis of exclusion.  Primary biliary cirrhosis is regarded asunlikely based on the number of granulomas lack of bile ductular injury or ductulocentric nature of granulomas and presence of granulomatous lymphadenitis.  Again, correlation with serology and the clinical finding is advised.  There isalso moderate chronic active hepatitis, mostly in the left lobe with stage 3 fibrosis.   Although a component of biliary obstruction may account for some of these appearances the granulomas do appear more extensive in the left lobe and there is a lack of periportal copper deposition which is usually seen in biliary obstruction at least if is chronic.  I will seek an expert opinion from Dr J Notter at PARKES 7 EAST pathology and a supplementary report will be issued.
B.  Seventeen lymph nodes show granulomatous lymphadenitis.  The well formed, often confluent granulomas are present both within thecortex and medulla and composed of epithelioid histiocytes.  No associated necrosis is seen.  No polarisable foreign material is seen. Within the medulla and interfollicular zones of some nodes there is vascular proliferation with conspicuous plasma cells.  There is no evidence of malignancy (0/17).
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Extended left hemihepatectomy, and gallbladder:
-  Invasive intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ? arising in association with a Klatskin extrahepatic biliary intraductal tubulopapillary neoplasm, vascular invasion, perineural invasion, margins clear.
-  Secondary biliary obstruction.
-  Granulomatous hepatitis (see comment).
-  Scheuer stage 3 hepatic fibrosis.
-  Mild chronic cholecysitis.
-  Expert review pending.
-  
B.  Hilar lymph nodes:
-  Seventeen negative lymphnodes (0/17)
-  Granulomatous lymphadenitis (see comment).

