Episode No:  45U563617G
4575636.CUG

HENNES, Wilburn 
Lab No:  45U56361
Marnham
WARRAGUL  Queensland  3278
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  17/6/2004
Sex:  M
Collected: 26/11/2065 at :
Location:  DAY SURGERYUNIT-CENTRAL HIGHLANDS RURAL HEALTH - KYNETON
DR MOISES YONG CORTNER
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
Right hemihepatectomy.  Portal lymphadenectomy.  Gallbladder.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Liver resection" consists of a wedge of liver measuring 160 x 100 x 100mm.  The serosal surfaceis smooth with an intact capsule.  There is a stapled surgical margin measuring 180 x 100mm and inked black.  On sectioning there is a pale tumour measuring approximately 32 x 15 x 15mm.  The tumour appears to abut the capsular surface and is approximately 45mm away from the surgical resection margin.  No other lesions are identified.  Representative sections.
Blocks:  1, 2 & 3 - tumour; 4 - liver away from tumour; 5 - tumour for Bio Bank.
(HT/rt 26.11.65)
B.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of an unopened gallbladder measuring 80 x 30 x 30mm.  The serosal surface is smooth and shiny.  No gallstones are present within the lumen of the gallbladder.  The mucosa is dark green and velvety.  
Blocks: 1 - proximal surgical margin and neck; 2 - body; 3 - fundus.
C.  Specimen labelled "Portal tissue" consists of multiple fragments of fibrofatty tissue measuring 5 to 40mm in maximum dimension.  Several fragments of tissue have a surgical staple line and multiple staples embedded within the fibrous tissue.  No lymph nodes are identified.  The non stapled tissue is AE in 3 blocks.  
(UE/ta 26/11/65) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Kuczkowski & Dr L Weldin):
A.  Sections show a moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.  The tumour has a mixture of solid and glandular architecture and is composed of epithelioid cells, with eosinophilic cytoplasm.  The nuclei are irregular with clear, coarse chromatin and prominent nucleoli.  There are better defined glandular areas with luminal mucinous material.  Infiltrating lymphocytes are present.  Frequent mitoses are present (up to 7 per 10 high powered fields).  The Ki67 proliferation index is 35%.  The tumour cells are positive for CK7, CK19 and CEA.  The stains for CK20, CDX-2, TTF-1, Hepar-1 and PSA are negative.  The appearances are consistent with those of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.  
No lymphovascular or perineural invasion is identified.  The carcinoma is completely excised.  The carcinoma is 0.25mm from the capsular surface, and is well away from the surgical resection margin.  There is high grade biliary intraepithelial neoplasia (Bil-IN3) within the bile ductules surrounding the carcinoma.  The liver tissue away from the tumour is unremarkable.  It shows normal lobular architecture, with no increase in portal tract inflammation or fibrosis. 
B. Sections show thickening of the gall bladder wall due to muscle hypertrophy, fibrosis and chronic inflammation.  Focal Rokitansky Aschoff sinus formation is present.  The appearance is consistent with chronic cholecystitis.  There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.
C.  Sections show normal appearing fibroadipose tissue fragments. There are prominent nerve bundles however no lymph nodes are identified.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Liver resection: Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, completely excised.
B.  Gallbladder: Chronic cholecystitis.
C.  Portal tissue: No evidence of malignancy.

