Episode No:  20E449505W
2014495.COW

Reichhardt, Mohammad 
Lab No:  20E44950
Lindore
CRANBOURNE  Tasmania  3141
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  14/6/1984
Sex:F
Collected: 20/11/2065 at 14:43
Location:  EAST SURGICAL-BATHURST BASE HOSPITAL
DR Aiden Jarvis STENDAL
Distribution:  FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Previous colorectal Ca + right hemicolectomy.  3 peritoneal deposits noted on PET.   Specimens:
-Right anterior abdominal nodule.  -Splenectomy, distal pancreatectomy and partial right nephrectomy with two nodules attachedto spleen and kidney.  OA, NIDDM, HTN, osteoporosis.  Bowel Ca.  
(NOTE: Discussion between Dr Keinonen and Dr YONG Steinhauser- No right partial nephrectomy done.  The specimen is a distal pancreatectomy + spleen + shave of kidney with adherent to tumour nodule and spleen.   
Information from PET scan dated 12.10.2065: peritoneal nodule abutting the left inferior rectus muscle 19mm in maximum dimension.  Second peritoneal lesion at the splenic hilum 21 x 19mm.  A small focus of activity at the splenic hilum ?third lesion)
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "L left abdominal wall nodule", consists of a firm tan piece of tissue measuring 35 x 35 to a depth of 15mm with adherent fibroadipose tissue over 45 x 25 x 15mm.The deep aspect is inked black.  On sectioning a tan firm tumour infiltrates through the fat and underlying fibrous tissue.  Representative sections.
Blocks: 1 and 2 - paired block full face through nodule and adherent fat;3 - representative mass for tumour for biobank.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Spleen +distal pancreatectomy", consists of a distal pancreatectomy and spleen with splenic hilar fat measuring in total 120 x 100 x60mm. The specimen incudes a wedge of superior left kidney approximately 16mm in maximum dimension which is adherent to the spleen with possible intervening tumuour about 15mm in maximum dimension. The distal pancreas measures 45 x 40 x 18mm with a stapled margin 45mm in length.  There is adherent fat attached to the posterior/inferior  pancreas over 55 x 40 x 28mm close to the splenic hilum containing a tumour deposit about 24mm in maximum dimension.   The spleen measures 115 x 70 x 60mm and the capsular surface is smooth aside from an adherent nodule at the splenic hilum/posterior medial aspect which measures about 15mm.  The margins are inked as follows: Medial kidney blue, lateral kidney black, pancreatic body margin green.  No discreet lymph nodes are found within the peripancreatic fat.  
Blocks: 1- shave splenic vascular margin; 2 - 2TS adjacent to splenic vascular margin; 3 - full face through pancreas, splenic hilar nodule and spleen; 4 - splenic hilar nodule and spleen; 5 and 6 - paired blocks pancreatic nodules; 7 - representative sclerotic pancreas; 8 and 9 - paired blocks splenic nodule; 10 - superior and inferior longitudinal sections of splenic nodule (inferior nicked); 11 - representative normal spleen; 12 - fatty adhesion attached to posterior pancreas with deposit (TO: AQ;KG/vo 23.11.65) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr F Bernosky):
A.  Sections show abdominal wall tissue including fascia, fibroadipose tissue and striated muscle.  Attached to the base of this tissue is adherent fat containing a deposit of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with mucinous features.  The deposit measures approximately 25mm andis predominantly located in the fat deep to fascia but penetrates the fascia infiltrating adipose tissue and striated muscle extending to within 0.6mm of the superficial margin (block A1).  The tumour is 4mm from the closest longitudinalend of abdominal wall soft tissue.  Tumour is present between serosal lined clefts of fatty tissue at the deep aspect of the specimen.  No lymphovascular invasion or perineural invasion is identified.  The tumour is composed of predominantly simple tubular and some anastomosing glands lined by columnar cells with moderately pleomorphic nuclei as well as intraluminaland extracellular mucin.  
B.  Sections include spleen, distal pancreas and a portion of adherent kidney.  There are four separate deposits of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.  The deposits are located in the splenic hilum adjacent to pancreatic tail, within adherent fat attached to the posterior/inferior pancreas close to the splenic hilum, within atrophic pancreas, and between spleen and adherent left kidney and measure approximately 15mm, 24mm, 8mm and 22mm respectively.  The deposits show similar morphology of that described above.  
The splenic hilar deposit (B4, B4) abuts but does not penetrate the capsule of the spleen, extends into peripancreatic fat but also invades the pancreatic parenchyma approximately 30mm from the pancreatic resection margin and 0.2mm from the anterior pancreatic surface. There is a peritumoural lymphoid reaction but no definite residual lymph node architecture is seen.
The separate pancreatic nodule measures approximately 8mm with associated venous invasion and is present adjacent to areas of nodular parenchymal atrophy (B5).  
The fatty adhesion attached to the posterior/inferior pancreatic tail measures about 24mm and penetrates the serosal surface with an associated with a fibroinflammatory reaction (B7).  
The deposit located between the kidney and spleen focally penetrates the fibrotic renal capsule invading the cortex (block B8) and the splenic capsule invading thesuperficial cortex (B8).  The tumour is 2.5mm from the renal parenchyma margin, 0.2mm from the lateral soft tissue margin between the spleen and kidney (B9), 0.2mm from the medial softtissue margin between the spleen and kidney (B8), 3mm from the superior soft tissue margin (B10) and 1mm from the inferior soft tissue margin (B10).  There is some associated interstitial inflammation in the superficial cortex of the kidney which is otherwise unremarkable.  Away from the tumour the spleen is also unremarkable.  An incidental simple cortical cyst is also seen in the kidney.  
Eight peripancreatic lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/8).  
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left abdominal wall nodule:  
-  Deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma with mucinous features, 24mm, serosal involvement, features in keeping with origin from a colorectal primary.
B.  Spleen, distal pancreatectomy and wedge of kidney.
-  Four separate deposits of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with mucinous features within the splenic hilum (approximately 15mm), fatty adhesion attached to the posteroinferior pancreas (24mm), pancreatic parenchyma (8mm), and between spleen and left kidney (approximately 22mm) in keeping with metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma.
-  Serosal involvement and focal venous invasion.  

