
 4674134.MND
Vancleave, Harlan
46T41344

Last edited : 5/1/2065		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Distal oesophageal adenocarcinoma.  Ivor-Lewis oesophagectomy.  Healthy on steroids for temporal arteritis.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Oesophagectomy" and consists of an oesophageal resection with attached proximal stomach (Ivor-Lewis oesophagectomy).  Oesophagus measures 70mm in length and up to 20mm maximum diameter.  The proximal stomach measures 40mm in length and 100mm in maximum diameter.  The external surface is partially covered by adipose tissue.  Specimen is inked blue at the oesophageal margin, black gastric margin, green radial oesophageal margin.  On sectioning the mucosal surface is smooth and unremarkable.  There is a small, slightly nodular ill defined area at the gastro oesophageal junction measuring 15mm (proximal to distal) and 10mm (right to left).  The gastric mucosa is unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 - shave proximal oesophageal margin; 2 to 7 - serial sections from distal oesophagus; 8 to 12 - serial sections from gastro oesophageal junction; 13 to 18 - serial section from distal oesophagus; 19 to 22 - regional  lymph nodes (block 20 contains a bisected lymph node).  Please refer to attached diagram.  
  (TO DY: EI/ta 2/13/64) 
 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr M Timmins)
The distal oesophageal tumour is a 7mm pTNM 1A moderately differentiated intramucosal adenocarcinoma (blocks 10 and 11). A synoptic report for adenocarcinoma follows:

SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR OESOPHAGEAL CARCINOMA
Tumour characteristics
Tumour location/relationship to COJ: At COJ. 
Histologic type (WHO classification): Intramucosal adenocarcinoma.  
Histologic grade (AJCC grading system): Moderately differentiated. 
Maximum dimension: 7mm (microscopic). 
Depth of Invasion: Adenocarcinoma is confined to the mucosa (lamina propria and muscularis mucosal invasion only). No involvement of submucosa is identified. 
Small vessel (capillary/lymphatic) invasion: Not identified. 
Large vessel (vein/artery) invasion: Not identified. 
Perineural invasion: Not identified. 
Degree of regression after preoperative chemoradiation (Chirieac et al, Cancer. 2005;103:1347-1355): No history of neoadjuvant therapy - N/A. 

Margins
Distance of invasive carcinoma from resection margins
Proximal Margin: Clear. 
Distal Margin: Clear. 
Circumferential/Radial Margin of oesophagus: 3.3mm. 

Nodes
Lymph nodes from main resection specimen: Twelve. 
Number of involved lymph nodes: None (0/12). 
Discontinuous extramural tumour nodules: Not identified. 
Additional pathological findings
Intestinal metaplasia: No diagnostic intestinal metaplasia seen.  
Glandular dysplasia: Not identified. 
Squamous dysplasia: Focal reactive oesophageal squamous epithelium is present. 
Other oesophageal findings: Reflux oesophagitis. 
Other gastric findings: Patchy very mild non-specific chronic gastritis. No diagnostic Helicobacter organisms identified. 
Pathologic Staging (pTNM Oesophageal staging system) = 1A (pT1N0Mx). 

DIAGNOSIS:
Oesophagectomy: 
pTNM Stage 1A moderately differentiated intra-mucosal adenocarcinoma, clear of margins. 
No evidence of malignancy in twelve lymph nodes (0/12). 



