
 3191775.TUO
Borkoski, CLINTON Louella
31Z17757

Last edited : 21/12/2065		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Left renal mass.  Left kidney. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Left kidney", consistsof a left nephrectomy measuring 140 x 120 x 80mm and weighing 708g.  Attached to the specimen is a length of ureter 65mm in length which is able to be probed and appears patent.  In the upper pole of the kidneyand compressing the kidney to the inferior aspect of the specimen is a large well circumscribed encapsulated tan tumour measuring 95 x 90 x 85mm. The central part of the tumour has a large scar which is partly haemorrhagic.  The tumour appears to come close to the medial, lateral, superior, anterior and posterior margins but appears entirely encapsulated throughout and does not breach the capsule. The tumour appears to push into the renal sinus but appears encapsulated at this point.  The kidney otherwise appears unremarkable.  Block 1 - ureteric resection margin; 2 - section of ureter half way along its length; 3 - vascular resection margins; 4 - lateral margin; 5 - superior margin; 6 - medial margin; 7 - anterior margin; 8 - posterior margin; 9 - scar intumour; 10 - tumour to kidney; 11 - tumour to renal sinus; 12 - uninvolved kidney; 13 - reserve block.  (TO: CJ/ec  14.12.65) 
 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr I Wetklow) 
Sections of the 95mm renal mass show a partially encapsulated tumour with a central stellate scar. The tumour is composed of bland round to polygonal cells with predominantly granular eosinophilic cytoplasm and small nucleoli arranged in cellular sheets, organoid clusters, nests and scattered tubular structures. At the edge of the sheets, the tumour cells appear more closely packed with an increased nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio and more hyperchromatic nuclei. Occasional binucleate cells are present. No perinuclear halos, significant cytoplasmic clearing or papilliform structures are identified. There are scatteredmitoses up to 2 per 10 high power fields. There is no significant cytologic atypia, atypical mitoses, necrosis, anaplasia or extension into perinephric or hilar adiposetissue. 
The tumour appears partially encapsulated. At its periphery it abuts the overlying compressed renal parenchyma and is focally less than 0.56mm fromthe renal capsular margin. The tumour directly abuts the central scar. The tumour pushes into the renal hilar, however, no direct infiltration of hilar/perinephric adipose tissue is seen. The tumour is confined to the kidney with no extension beyond Gerota's fascia. 

The ureteric and vascular margins appear free of tumour. 
The adjacent non-neoplastic renal parenchyma shows non-specific nephrosclerosis. 
IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:
Tumour cells positive for: CAM5.2, Pancytokeratin, CD10, C-Kit (patchy), CD56 (focal weak), EMA and P540S. 
Tumour cells negative for: CK7, Vimentin, CD15, S100, CK20 and WT1.
COMMENT:
The 95mm renal mass shows morphologic and immunohistochemical features most in keeping with a renal oncocytoma. The tumour appears confined to the kidney and is 0.56mm from the closest renal capsular margin. 
DIAGNOSIS:
Left kidney: Consistent with a 95mm renal oncocytoma, clear of margins.
See comment. 

The slides are being sent to Dr KENETH Yattaw for an additional opinion and a supplementary report will be issued. 





