Episode No:  89V107535X
8981075.IPX

Whitcher, RAYMOND X 
Lab No:  89V10753
Jack Rogers
BUCASIA  SA  2406
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  20/9/2028
Sex:  M
Collected: 17/12/2065 at :
Location:  BRIGHAM & WOMEN'S HOSPITAL-BARADINE MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
DR WILLIE Resenz
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
Retroperitoneal mass.  Sutures:  Short superior, long lateral, medium medial.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Retroperitoneal mass" consists of a orientated excision of fatty and partly tan tissue measuring 80mm (medial to lateral) x 120mm (inferior to superior) x 70mm (anterior to posterior).  There are three sutures in situ as designated.  The anterior surface is inked green, the posterior surface is inked black and the lateral aspect is inked red.  The specimen is serially sectioned in the transverse planeinto nine slices from slice one superior to slice nine inferior.  A well circumscribed tan, fleshy and partly myxoid tumour is identified occupying the majority of the specimen.  These measures 70mm (medial to lateral) x 120mm (inferior to superior) x 50mm (superficial to deep).  There are areas of haemorrhage and cystic mucoid change within the specimen.  The specimen appears to abut the posterior, lateral, medial, inferior margins and is 8mm from the superior margin and 13mm from the anterior margin.  There is a focus in blocks 4 to6 of hard, calcified bone material.  This area is well away from the margins.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representative slice one; 3 to 5 - medial margin; 6 to 8 - anterior margin; 9 to 11 - lateral margin; 12 to 14 - posterior margin; 15 to 17 - inferior margin; 18 to 20 - representative haemorrhagic and myxoid fragments; 21 & 22 - bony fragments; 23 - reserved block.  Please refer to attached diagram.
(TO: FG;UQ/rt 18.12.65)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr X Farish):
Sections show a markedly enlarged lymph node mass which shows features of Castleman's disease of hyaline vascular type.  This consists of prominent lymphoid follicles with intervening highly vascular interfollicular tissue.  Some follicles are hyperplastic but many are regressed and show prominent, unusual vascularisation.  There is prominent vascular proliferation in the interfollicular zones with an associated moderate number of mixed cells including lymphocytes, eosinophils and plasma cells.  The plasma cells are not particularly conspicuous.  Stains for kappa and lambda light chains confirm that the plasma cells are polyclonal.  No Reed Sternberg cells are identified and there is no evidence of malignancy.  There are some foci of hyalinised fibrosis within the node and also there are cystic foci with ectatic vascular channels.  The hyalinised tissue is focally calcified.
Excision of the mass appears complete.
Six small apparent uninvolved lymph nodes are identified in adjacent fat in the sections.  A medium sized muscular vein which contains organising thrombus is also present in adjacent fat.  
Castleman's disease of hyaline vascular type comprises the majority of casesof localised Castleman's disease.  It usually presents as a large mass involving a lymph node or group of nodes.  The mediastinum is the common site of involvement but abdominal lymph nodes can also be involved.  Complete surgical excision is curative.  The cause is unknown.
DIAGNOSIS:
Retroperitoneal mass:  Castleman's disease, hyaline vascular type.

