
Episode No:  43N397724E
4353977.FLE

ATHANS, Manuel Werner 
Lab No:  43N39772,43N39772
Guinda
PERTH  SA  7025
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  28/9/1991
Sex:  F
Collected: 29/7/2065 at :
Location:  BRIGHAM & WOMEN'S HOSPITAL - LOGAN HOSPITAL
DR ELWOOD Ashtonjack WALDENBERG
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Endometrial cancer.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, tubes, ovaries and cervix" consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopiantubes and ovaries weighing 82g in total.  The uterus measures 75 x 50 x 25mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 28 x 23mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning, there is an endometrial tumour measuring 32mm (superior to inferior) x 22mm (right to left) x 24mm (anterior to posterior).  The tumour is situated in the body and fundus anteriorly and posteriorly and has a pale surface, and is partially exophytic, and also extends intothe outer half of the myometrium.  Anteriorly, the tumour extends to a depth of 11mm where the myometrium is17mm, and an area that appears cystic adjacent to the tumour extends to a depth of 13mm where the myometrium is 15mm.  Posteriorly the tumour extends to a depth of 13mm where the myometrium is 16mm.  In the fundus of the uterus there are two pale white whorled nodules measuring 17mm and 10mm showing no areas of haemorrhage or necrosis on sectioning.  The right ovary measures 17 x 12 x 8mm and on sectioning shows three small cysts with an undulating outline.  Adjacent to the right ovary there isa multiloculated thin walled cystic structure measuring 27 x 17 x 12mm.  The cyst is filled with thin clear fluid.  The right fallopian tube measures 67mm in length and 5mm in maximum dimension and the serosal surface shows two separate 5mm nodules.  The left ovary measures 16 x 12 x 7mm and on sectioning shows several small cysts with an undulating outline.  The left fallopian tube is difficult to identify and appears discontinuous, measuring approximately 35mm in length and 6mm in maximum diameter.  On sectioning no abnormality is seen.  In the left adnexal soft tissue there is a 5mm calcified mobilenodule.     
Blocks: 1 to 3 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 4 & 5 - body and fundus anteriorly with deep point of invasion and cystic area; 6 to8 - full LS posterior body and cervix; 9 - representative right ovary; 10 - representative right fallopian tube; 11 & 12 - cyst adjacent to right ovary (entirely embedded); 13 - representative left ovary; 14 - representative left  fallopian tube; 15 - white whorled nodule at fundus (?fibroids); 16 - calcified nodule; 17 - representative tumour for bio-banking.  
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Right abdominal wall lesion" and consists of an unoriented piece of skin 14 x 10mm to a depth of up to 4mm bearing a polypoid rough tan lesion 18 x 9mm to a height of 5mm.  The surgical margin is inked blue.  On sectioning, the lesion has a hemogenous tan cut surface, appearing clear of the margins.  
Blocks: 1 - two x TS.
 
C.  Specimen labelled "Left abdominal lesion" consists of a 3mm punch biopsy of skin measuring 4mm deep.  On the skin surface there is a pale exophytic lesion 4mm in height and 2mm across the base.  The margin is inked blue.  Embedded whole 1 block.  
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Left thigh lesion" consists of a piece of round soft pale tissue measuring 8 x 7 x 6mm with a 2mm wide base/surgical margin (inked blue).  BAE 1 block.  
E.  Specimen labelled "Peritoneum left diaphragm" consists of two fragments of tan tissue measuring 1 and 3mm across.   AE 1 block.   (TO:PJ; TM/ta 30/7/65) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Iadarola): 
A.  Sections of theuterus show features of a grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  It is marked by complex villoglandular and cribriform structures and minor non-squamous solid component comprising more than 5% of the tumour.  Areas of mucinous differentiation can be frequently seen.  The tumour invades to a maximum depth of 11mm though a 13mm thick myometrium.  There is focal evidence of lymphatic space invasion.  
Focal adenomyosis and benign leiomayomata can be seen in the adjacentmyometrium.
No cervical involvement is evident.  The ectocervix displays features of atrophy.  The endocervix appears unremarkable.
The ovaries and fallopian tubes show no significant abnormality.  A benign multilocular mesothelial cyst is seen adjacent to the right ovary.  The small lesion in the left adnexal soft tissue is a hyalinized calcified nodule.  The origin of the lesion is uncertain due to the absence of residual viable cells.
B.  Sections of skin show a benign dermal nevus.  There are no atypical features present.
C.  Sections of skin show features of a seborrheic keratosis.
D.  Sections of skin show aggregates of ectopic mature adiopocytes in the dermis.  Features are consistent with a nevus lipomatosus.
E.  Sections show unremarkable fibroadipose tissue.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS: 
A.  Uterus, tubes, ovaries, and cervix:
-  Grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
-  11/13mm myometrial invasion.
-  Lymphatic space invasion focally present.
-  No cervical involvement.
-  No significant abnormality in the ovaries and fallopian tubes.
-  Leiomyoma and adenomyosis.
B.  Right abdominal wall lesion:Benign dermal nevus.
C.  Left abdominal lesion:  Seborrheic keratosis. 
D.  Left thigh lesion:  Nevus lipomatosus.
E.  Peritoneum left diaphragm:  Unremarkable fibroadipose tissue.



