Episode No:  70W049799H
7080497.YXH

CASILLO, Jacquetta 
Lab No:  70W04979,70W04979
Featherstall
MITTAGONG  Victoria  7256
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  18/10/2011
Sex:  F
Collected: 06/02/2065 at 18:22
Location:  ENVOI Pathology-BEECHWORTH HEALTH SERVICE
DR Carlos HORACE WIGREN
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
		SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (15.6.65)

CLINICAL:
Vaginal cancer - adenocarcinoma.  Pannus for gross examination only.  
Further history from Prof Ramiro and DrT Jetton:
No known DES exposure
Past breast carcinoma
Nil other primary detected in staging workup.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, tubes + ovaries" consists of a uterus with cervix and vaginal wall, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 88g in total.  The specimen was received in formalin.  The uterus with cervix is 75 x 40 x 30mm.  The ectocervix is 25 x 20mm.  The vaginal wall is 45 x 60 x 10mm, and consists of predominantly anterior vaginal wall.  The left margin is inked black and the right margin blue.  Over the anterior vaginal wall is an area of mucosal irregularity with ulceration, 40 x 35mm.  The endometrium appears atrophic.  The myometrium is up to 12mm thick.  The uterine serosa is smooth and unremarkable.  The right ovary is 20 x 10 x 10mm and the right fallopian tube is 45mm in length.  The left ovary is 25 x 12x 8mm and the left fallopian tube is 40mm in length.  
Blocks:  1 to 7 - anterior distal vagina serially embedded from right to left; 8 to 19 - anterior vagina with cervix serially embedded from right to left; 20 to 28 - anterior endocervix serially embedded from right to left; 29 & 30 - anterior uterine body; 31 to 40 - posterior vagina/cervix serially embedded from left to right; 41 to 47 - posterior cervix serially embedded from left to right; 48 & 49 - posterior uterine body; 50 - right ovary and fallopian tube; 51 - left ovary and fallopian tube.  Specimen photograph taken.  Please see block diagram.  Cervix and vagina AE.
B.  Specimen labelled "Abdominal pannus" consists of adipose tissue, 350 x 145 x 50mm.  There is an overlying triangle of skin, 290 x 55mm.  The specimen weighs 714g.  No focal lesions are seen. No tissue sampled for microscopic examination as per the requesting doctor.  (TO: ZL:  OV/mm 6.2.65) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr T Deakins)
A.  The entire vaginal cuff and cervix is embedded and examined.  Sections show well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with mucinous and intestinal features.  The tumour is predominantly moderately differentiated with well differentiated areas and a minor poorly differentiated component.  The tumour extensively infiltrates the vaginal cuff (anteriorly and laterally), circumferentially involves the cervix (anteriorly > posteriorly) extends into the lower segment and reaches the endometrium (block A48), but not underlying myometrium, of the uterine body.  The tumour infiltrates the full thickness of the vaginal wall anteriorly extending into the paravaginal fibroadipose soft tissue 0.1mm from this margin anteriorly (block A2) and is up to 14mm thick (block A16).  The tumour also extends to the inferior vaginal margin anteriorly discontinuously over a front of approximately 9mm (three consecutive blocks A4-6)and also invades the paracervical fibroadipose tissue.  The posterior vaginal cuff appears free of tumour.  There are numerous fociof lymphovascular invasion within the muscular stroma of the vagina (eg A3) including a medium sized vessel (A6) at interface with soft tissue.  There is also extensive perineural invasion both within the muscular stroma and paravaginal soft tissue (eg A3, A6, A7).  
The tumour is mainly composed of simple tubular glands with some complex glandular areas. The tumour cells show variable, mild or moderate nuclear pleomorphism, contain patchy intracellular and intraluminal mucin and show patchy intestinal differentiation in the form of goblet and paneth cells(eg Block A18 ).  A minor poorly differentiated component showing single cell infiltration is seen.  In some areas the tumour shows a melting type pattern of invasion without significant stromal reaction, however, elsewhere there is associated stromal desmoplasia.  Focally within the cervix there are glands in which malignant epithelium appears is continuity with bland epithelium including foci in continuity with the lining glandular endocervical epithelium, however, it is not possible to determine if this represents unequivocal evidence of in-situ disease (eg blocks A23, A24 and A26) given the extent of tumour here.  No evidence of Human Papilloma virus cytopathic effect, vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia  (VAIN), cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) or cervical intraepithelial involving the cervical squamous epithelium is seen.  The endometrium is inactive and the myometrium is unremarkable. The left and right ovaries and fallopian tube are univolved and unremarkable.
Immunohistochemistry  
The tumour cells stain as follows: 
Positive:  CK7 (strong diffuse), CK20 (focal minimal),  CDX2 (focal weak),  CEA (patchy very weak luminal pattern) and CA125.  
Negative:  P16 (appears to stain scattered residual foci of non-neoplastic glandular epithelium), ER (highlights some background residual non-neoplastic glands)
Pending:  PAX8.

COMMENT:
A.  The features are those of an extensive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with mucinous and intestinal differentiation.  As the disease extensively involves both the vagina and cervix,it is not possible to differentiate whether this is a vaginal primary invading the cervix or a cervical primary invading the vagina.  Nevertheless the cervical disease is circumferential raising the possibility of a primary here even though no diagnostic cervical adenocarcinoma-in-situ (AIS) is seen.  Although it is unusual for a cervical adenocarcinoma to involve the vagina as extensively as seen in this case the tumour also extends into the endometrium.  Primary vaginal adenocarcinomas are extremely rare but, like cervical adenocarcinomas, may show intestinal differentiation.  The negative P16 expression in this case is not helpful in excluding a cervical primary as adenocarcinoma with intestinal features may be P16 negative.  Given the morphology, thebulky vaginal disease, and that the majority of adenocarcinomas in the vagina are typically secondaries, the possibility of metastatic disease, in particular from a pancreaticobiliary primary, should be excluded.  The immunoprofile and morphology are not those of metastatic breastcancer (past history of grade 3 infiltrating ductal carcinoma involving the left breast, Southern Pathology report 708049-7 noted.) 
B.  No blocks taken as per request form.  
Selected slides shown toDr T Branan who concurs.
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Uterus, tubes and ovaries:  
- Predominantly moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma  with intestinal and mucinous differentiation up to 14mm thick, ER negative, extensively involving the vagina and cervix, invading the paravaginal and paracervical soft tissue, extensive mural and extramural perineural invasion, foci of lymphovascular invasion, positive anterior vaginal cuff margin inferiorly, positive perivaginal soft tissue margin anteriorly (see comment). 
B.  Abdominal Pannus:  No blocks taken as per request form.  
The findings were discussed with Prof TEdgardo on 6.12.65


	SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT(Reported by Dr T Partridge)(15.6.65)

A PAX 8 immunostain (received courtesy of ATHERTON HOSPITAL Hospital) is positive in both the tumour and benign endocervical glandular epithelium.  PAX8 immunoexpression is uncommon in pancreatic adenocarcinomas although case numbers tested in reported series are low.



