Episode No:  81R677661Z
8166776.PDZ

Lansdale, WALDO 
Lab No:  81R67766
Chiles
EMU PLAINS  Tasmania  3024
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  12/4/1997
Sex:  F
Collected: 26/1/2066 at :
Location:Tissue Pathology and Diagnostic Oncology - BRIDGETOWN HOSPITAL
DR Kamilaroi Clifford Stinton
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY / AMENDED REPORT (2.4.66):

CLINICAL:
Metastatic colon cancer.  Hemicolectomy.  Liver resection.  Hypertension.  Anxiety/depression.  Benign adrenal tumour.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right obturator lymph node" consists of a piece of adipose tissue measuring 55 x 50 x 15mm.  Three lymph nodes are identified 5, 10 and 40mm.  
Blocks:  1 to 3 - representative section of largest node (frozen section); 4 - one lymph node; 5 - one lymph node; 6 & 7 - rest of largest lymph node.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Three negative lymph nodes.  
Result to Dr Frederic by Dr W Cellar and Dr W Gaden at 5:45pm on 26/01/66.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes, ovaries" consists of a uterus with attached fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 92g in total.  The uterus measures 80 x 50 x 30mm and has a diffusely haemorrhagic serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 45 x 45mm and has a haemorrhagic polypoid appearance.  On opening there is an exophytic haemorrhagic tumour involving the anterior left ectocervix and extending to the posterior left ectocervix.  It measures 30 x 20 x 20mm and also extends into the lower uterine segment.  The tumour is present at the external os.  It is 2mm from the posterior soft tissue margin and 3mm from the anterior soft tissue margin.  The endometrium is 3mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is up to 13mm thick.  The myometrium contains one fibroid, 7mm in maximum dimension.  The right fallopian tube measures 43 x 10 x 8mm and the serosal surface is haemorrhagic.  The right ovary measures 30 x 15 x 15mm and has an unremarkable surface.  The left fallopian tube and ovary are adherent and are covered by haemorrhagic exudates; they cannot be separated and together measure 35 x 25 x 15mm.  
Blocks:  1 to 3 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix; 4 to 6 - further sections of tumour within left anterior cervix; 7 to 9 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix; 10 to 12 - further sections of tumour along posterior left cervix; 13 & 14 - right fallopian tube; 15 & 16 - right ovary; 17 to 20 - left fallopian tube and ovary.  (TO: FP:  IG/mm 27.1.66)  21 to 33 - re-select - rest of cervix (SE 29.1.66).
C.  Specimen labelled "Omental biopsy" consists two pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 210 x 80 x 12mm and 130 x 60 x 15mm.  The omentumis covered by petechial haemorrhage but no discrete mass is identified on sectioning.  Representative sections in three blocks.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - largest omentum; 3 - smaller piece.  
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Right external iliac lymph node" consists of pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring in aggregate 55 x 50 x 10mm.  Possible lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes are AE.
Blocks: 1 & 2 - possible lymph nodes; 3 - rest of fibrofatty tissue.
 
E.  Specimen labelled "Right obturator lymph node" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 38 x 20 x 8mm containing two lymph nodes, 5 and 15mm in main dimension.  Specimen AE.
Blocks: 1 - one lymph node bisected; 2 - one lymph node; 3 - rest of fibrofatty tissue.  
 
F.  Specimen labelled "Left external iliac lymph node" consists of multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissuemeasuring in aggregate 50 x 50 x 10mm.  No lymph nodes are identified within the fibrofatty tissue.  The specimen is AE 3 blocks. 
    
G.  Specimen labelled "Left obturator lymph nodes" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 70 x 35 x 15mm containing lymph nodes measuring from 10 to 18mm in maximum dimension.  The lymph nodes are AE.
Blocks: 1 - one lymph node serially sectioned; 2 - one lymph node bisected; 3 - one lymph node bisected; 4 - lymph nodes as seen.   (TO:JR; VQ/ta 27/1/66) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr W Trail):
A.  Sections show three lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy.  
B.  Sectionsof the cervix and lower segment show involvement by a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.  The tumour consists of sheets of cells with some glands and cribriform structures.  The tumour cells have large, pleomorphic nuclei and basophilic cytoplasm.  There is focal lymphovascular invasion. No perineural invasion is identified.    
With immunostains the tumour cells stain positivefor oestrogen receptors (strong positive staining of most cells), progesterone receptors (patchy positive staining) and PAX-8 and also show some patchy positive staining for cytokeratin 7, p16 and p53.  Stains for CEA, vimentin, cytokeratin 20 and CDX2 are negative.  
The previous biopsy report isnoted (our reference 81R67766), however the histologic appearance and immunophenotype are most consistent with an endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  It is architectural grade 2 but a significant proportion is cytologic grade 3 so overall it is considered to be grade 3,  
The tumour is partly polypoid but also invades deeply into cervical stroma and into myometrium of the lower segment.  Maximum depth of cervical stromal/lower segment myometrial invasion is 11mm out of a total wall thickness of 15mm.  Tumour is 10mm from the ectocervical excision margin at the closest point and is 1.5mm from the nearest deep cerrvical stromal margin.  
The whole cervix has been blocked.  Sections of the cervix away from the tumour show no evidence of CIN or adenocarcinoma in-situ.
Sections of the uterine bodyand fundus also show involvement by an endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  This is separate from the lower segment/cervical tumour and has a different appearance.  It is grade 1 and arises from the endometrium and invades deeply intp myometrium..  Maximum depth of myometrial invasion is 6mm out of a total myometrial thickness of 11mm.  A leiomyoma is confirmed in the myometrium.  The endometrial tumour also involves adenomyosis and invades into the leiomyoma.   No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  
The myometrium is otherwise unremarkable.  
With immunostains this tumour stains positive for oestrogen receptors (strong, diffuse positive staining).  It also shows preserved nuclear staining for the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6.  
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI).
Sections of the right ovary and fallopian tube are unremarkable.  Sections of the left ovary and tube show that these are adherent and there is overlying fibrofat.  There are benign inclusions in the ovary but the ovary and tube are otherwise unremarkable.  
Stains for mismatch repair enzymes will also be performed on the lower segment/cervical tumour; a supplementary report will be issued.
C.  Sections show unremarkable fat.  No tumour is seen.  
D.  Sections show one lymph node.  No tumour is seen.  
E.  Sections show two lymph nodes.  No tumour is seen.  
F.  Sections show one lymph node.  No tumour is seen.  
G.  Sections show seven lymph nodes.  No tumour is seen.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right obturator lymph nodes:  
-  No tumour (0/3).  
B.  Uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes:  
1.  Grade 3 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of cervix, extending into lower segment and invading deeply into cervical stroma and lower segment myometrium.  
Stage 1B2.
2.  Grade I endometrioid adenocarcinoma of endometrium invading myometrium greater than 50%, Stage 1B.   
3.  Leiomyoma.  
C.  Omental biopsy: 
-  No tumour.
D.  Right external iliac lymph node:  
-  No tumour (0.1).  
E.  Right obturator lymph nodes:
-  No tumour (0/2).
F.  Left external iliac lymph node:
-  No tumour (0/1).  
G.  Left obturator lymph nodes:
-  No tumour (0/7).  

SUPPLEMENTARY / AMENDED REPORT (2.4.66):
B.  This case was discussed at the Gynae Oncology Multidisciplinary Meeting on 2.2.66.  Pre-operatively it was thought that the patient had a large cervical tumour so it was considered that the cervical/lower segment endometrioid adenocarcinoma is best regarded as primary cervical.  It is stage 1B2.  The report has been slightly amended and the diagnosis line (above) has been amended. 
Immunostains for mismatch repair enzymes have also been performed on the cervical tumour.
MLH1:   Loss of nuclear staining.
PMS2:   Loss of nuclear staining.
MSH2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6:   Preserved nuclear staining.
Loss of nuclear staining of a carcinoma for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI) and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
  

