
Episode No:  50I326681A
5033266.WEA

PINEAULT, Darcel 
Lab No:  50I32668
Shortcrofts
GRETA  ACT  3151
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  27/12/1992
Sex:  F
Collected: 30/07/2065 at 18:43
Location:  Anat Path - CLERMONT MULTI-PURPOSE HEALTH SERVICE
DR Isidra TRAN BRYANT-RACINE
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
	AMENDED AND SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (20.8.65)
		SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 2 (24.8.65)
The following report replaces the originally issued report in which there was a typographical error in the diagnostic summary.  The stated size of the tumour in the summary was 850mm.  This should have been 85mm as stated in the body of the report.  The error has been corrected in the followingreport. 


CLINICAL:
Left mastectomy and axillary clearance.  Left locally advanced node + IDC.  Post neoadjuvant chemo.  Specimen: left breast tissue - lateral; long stitch - superior; short stitch.  Left axillary clearance level 1 and 2.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left breast stiches long lateral short superior", consists of a mastectomy measuring 207 x 210 x 45mm.  There are suturesorientating short superior long lateral.  There is an ellipse of skin on the surface measuring 200 x 80mm containing a nipple areola complex.  The nipple is inverted, non-ulcerated and the skin appears unremarkable.  The superficial surface inked blue and the deep black.  On sectioning there is an ill-defined area of ? fibrosis (? Tumour bed) measuring 15mm (medial to lateral) x 700 (superior to inferior) x 30mm (superficial to deep).   This area involves the nipple and extends into all quadrants of the breast.  This ill-defined zone is clear of the margins as follows: superficial 22mm,  deep10mm, superior 70mm, inferior 60mm, lateral 75mm and medial 60mm are two tumours identified. 
Blocks: 1 and 2 - nipple areola complex and tissue deep to nipple; 3 and 4 - paired blocks tumour one; 5 to 7 - paired blocks tumour two including superficial and deep margin; 8 to 10, 11 to 13, - tumour one; 14 to 16 - tumour two; 17 and 18 - upper inner quadrant; 19 and 20 - upper outer quadrant; 21 and 22 - lower outer quadrant; 23 and 24 - lower inner quadrant; 25 and 26 - axilla - possible lymph node.  
Please see diagram. Reselect blocks: 27 - lateral to block 17, 28 - medial to block 17; 29 to 31- superior area of main tumour; 33 to 35 - inferior area of main tumour; 36 to 38 - medial of main tumour; 39 to 42 - lateral to main tumour ; 43 and 44 - superficial margin lower outer quadrant.

B.  Specimen labelled "Level one axilla", consists of three pieces of unorientated fibrofatty tissue measuring 70 x 30 x 18mm, 50 x 30 x 10mm, and 50 x 15 x 6mm.  Possible lymph nodes are found in the fibrofatty tissue. (TO: QQ;IH/vo 8.1.65)  Representative in 3 blocks.  Remainder of specimen AE 13 blocks. 
(TO: IG;IC/vo 8.11.65) 
C.  Specimen labelled "Level 2 L axilla", consists of an unorientated piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 50 x 30 x 13mm.  Possible lymph nodes are identified within the fibrofatty tissue.  Representative in 2 blocks.  
Blocks: 1 and 2 - lymph nodes as seen.  (TO: IY;JR/vo 8.1.65) 
Remainder of specimen AE in an extra 3 block.  (TO: RP;OO/vo 8.11.65) 

MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr X Penaflor):
A.  The breast has been well sampled.  Sections show residual infiltrating ductal carcinoma, NST, grade 2 following therapy.  The tumour is present within all quadrants of the breast but appears centred in the retroareolar area, involving the stroma, but not the epithelium, of the nipple.  The latter shows a focal erosion but no Pagetoid involvement is seen including with a CK7 immunostain. The tumour is composed of moderate to highly pleomorphic cells (nuclear grade = 3) arranged in small clusters, poorly formed glands or dispersed single malignant cells (tubules score =3) within stroma that is fibrohyaline but non-desmoplastic.  Tumour cell mitoses are inconspicuous (2/10hpf)(mitosis score =1) (overall score= 7)(grade 2, Modified Bloom and Richardson).  Compared to the pre-treatment biopsy there is a significant reduction in tumour cellularity, estimated at a greater than 90% reduction, assuming the core biopsy was representative of the entire tumour. There is no significant necrosis. The specimen includes patchy atrophic striated muscle at the deep aspect which is uninvolved.   
Determining the contiguous extent of the tumour is difficult because of the infiltrative nature of thetumour, often dispersed along fibrous septa and because in many areas, the tumour cells resembles atypical stromal cells or reactive multinucleated giant cells.  However, strong CAM 5.2 keratin immunoexpression by the latter cells, in selected blocks, confirms that they are carcinoma cells.  The largest measurement in this case is determined by involvement of contiguous blocks.  The tumour measures approximately 85mm (superior to inferior) x at least 19mm (medial to lateral) x 30mm (superficial to deep).  
Compared to the pretreatment biopsy (87M74688) the residual tumour cells show patchy treatment effect with cell enlargement, cytoplasmic eosinophilia and/or vacuolation, nuclear pleomorphism, smudging of chromatin and multinucleation.  
No lymphovascular invasion including dermal lymphatic invasion is identified.  
The tumour appears 5.5mm clear of the deep margin (block A9) and 4.5mm clear of the superficial margin (A23).  The superior and inferior margins are well clear (>10mm).  In the vicinity of the tumour there are changes consistent with previous therapy including atypia of endothelial cells and stromalcells.  The residual breast glandular parenchyma is atrophic.  No lymph nodes are identified in the lateral portion of the specimen.
B.   The speciemen is entirely embedded and examined.  One (1) of five (5) atrophic lymph nodes contains metastatic carcinoma arranged as single or small clusters of malignant cells.  The tumour cells are detected in an H&E stained section but are highlighted by a CAM5.2 keratin immunostain.  With the latter less than 20 tumour cells are seen in the involved lymph node consistent with  involvement by isolated tumour cells.  Another node shows a single giant cell which is favoured to be reactive (CAM5.2 pending).  The lymph nodes shows depletion of lymphoid parenchyma and fibrosis and the tumour cells show treatment effect.  No extranodal extension is seen.
C.   The specimen is entirely embedded and examined.  One (1) of three (3) atrophic lymph nodes contains metastatic carcinoma arranged as small clustersof malignant cells which appear multinucleate with treatment effect  The cells are present in dense fibrous tissue devoid of lymphoid stroma which probably represents an atrophic node with treatment effect rather than extranodal tumour.  The tumour cells are detected in an H&E stained section but are highlighted by a CAM5.2 keratin immunostain.  With the latter less than 20 tumour cells are seen in the involved lymph node (isolated tumour cells).  No definite extranodal extension is seen.
Synoptic Report for Breast Carcinoma.
Invasive carcinoma:
Site:  Left breast
Type:  Infiltrating ductal carcinoma, NST
Invasive tumour size:  Approximately 85mm
Grade (Modified Bloom &Richardson):  2
Tubules:  3  Nuclei:  3  Mitoses:  1  Mitotic rate:  2 /10hpf.
Lymphovascular invasion:  Not seen.

DCIS component: 
DCIS:  Not seen
Excision Margins:  
Invasive component: 
Superficial: 4.5mm clear (A23).  
Deep: 5.5mm clear (block A9) and of the closest superficial margin (A23).  
Other margins: Well clear (>10mm)
Treatment effect in residual tumour cells:
Present
Response to neoadjuvant therapy (NAT)
Grade 4 (almost pathological complete response) (Miller-Payne System) 
RCB II (partial reponse)(score 3.3)(RCB System)
Miller Payne Grading System post NAT
Assessment is based only on comparison of tumour cellularity in pretreatment core biopsy (87M74688) and post NAT mastectomy.  The Miller Payne system does not take into account assessment of lymph node status
Grade 1 No change or some alteration to individual malignant cells, but no reduction in overall cellularity (pNR) 
Grade 2:  A minor loss of tumor cells, but overall cellularity still high; up to 30% loss (pPR) 
Grade 3:  Between an estimated 30% and 90% reduction in tumor cells (pPR) 
Grade 4:  A marked disappearance of tumor cells such that only small clusters or widely dispersed individual cells remain; >90% loss of tumor cells (almost pCR) 
Grade 5:  No malignant cells identifiable in sections from the site of the tumor; only vascular fibroelastotic stroma remains, often containing macrophages; however, ductal carcinoma in situ may be present (pCR)
RCB System
Assessment is based on estimate of size of residual tumour bed in two dimensions, overall cancer cellularity (as a percentage of area), percentage of cancer that is in-situ disease, the number of involved lymph nodes and size of largest deposit.  This information is entered into an MD Anderson calculator (http://www.mdanderson.org/breastcancer_RCB) to determine a score and category.
RCB-0: No carcinoma in breast or lymph node (pCR) 
RCB-I: Partial response 
RCB-II: Partial response 
RCB-III: Chemoresistant


Receptors (Block A3): 
ER:  Positive
	90% of nuclei stained
	predominant intensity of staining:  Strong
PR:  Positive
	50% of nuclei stained
	predominant intensity of staining:  Strong(Novocastra 10A7):  Equivocal 2+
HER2 SISH:  Performed at The TJX Companies, NEPEAN HOSPITAL Hospital, see separate report.
Ki-67 index:  To follow
Nipple:  Involved
Paget's:Not seen.
LCIS / ALH:  Not seen
Miscellaneous:  
Stromal changes consistent with previous therapy
Sentinel lymph node(s):
Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 0
Axillary/other nodes (specimens B & C:
Number of axillary lymph nodes examined: 8
Number of axillary lymph nodes involved by tumour: 2 (one level one and one level 2)
Number of axillary nodes with metastases >2.0mm: 0
Number of axillary nodes with metastases <2.0mm:  0
Number of axillary nodes with isolated tumour cells <0.2mm: 2
Detected by H & E and immunostain.
Extranodal spread:  No definite.
Lymph node total:
Total number of lymph nodes examined (including sentinel node(s)): 8
Total number of involved lymph nodes (including sentinel node(s)): 2 (isolated tumour cells only).
 

DIAGNOSIS:
A - C.  Left breast (mastectomy), level one left axilla, level 2 left axilla:
-  85mm grade 2 infiltrating ductal carcinoma, NST,  ER positive, PR positive, HER SISH (see separate report), evidence of treatment effect present, no lymphovascular invasion seen, margins clear, two (2) of eight lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma (isolated tumour cells), partial response to neoadjuvant therapy (RCB II).
-  Ki67 on tumour and CAM5.2 on one lymph node pending; result to follow in supplementary report,

	SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 1 (20.8.65)((Reported by Dr X Quattro)

A CAM5.3 keratin immunostain performed on a lymph node from level 1 shows isolated tumour cells (numbering less than 100 cells)(block B8).  This increases the involved node count from two (2) of eight (8), as stated in the original report, to three (3) of eight (3/8).  All the involved nodes show isolated tumour cells only.

	SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 2 (24.8.65)((Reported by Dr X Bartnik)

The Ki67 proliferation index of the tumour cells is very difficult to interpret because of the difficulty of confidently distinguishing tumour cells from non-malignant cells.  It is estimatedat about 10% but this may not be an accurate estimate.



