Episode No:  45J766849G
4537668.MZG

Dusel, Kathi 
Lab No:  45J76684
Brandy Hill
LAWSON  South Australia  4388
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  10/4/2015
Sex:  M
Collected: 05/08/2065 at 16:20
Location:  POSTOPERATIVE RECOVERY-TEXAS HOSPITAL MULTIPURPOSE HEALTH SERVICE
DR Benedict Marcelino Josic
Distribution:  DR Deon
CLINICAL:
Hep B.  HCC.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of a gallbladder measuring 65mm in length and up to 78mm in circumference.  The serosalsurface is partially roughened.  The roughened areas are inked blue.  The mucosa is green and granular.  
Blocks: 1 - neck margin shave; 2 - two TS body; 3 - LS fundus. 
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Hepatic tumour" consists of a morcellated specimen (approximately ten fragments) measuring 80 x 65 x 30mm in aggregate.  The largest piece is 70 x 45 x 30mm.  Part of the largest piece appears to be part of a disrupted cyst.  This area is 4 to 5mm in thickness and measures 52 x 45mm in surface dimensions.  Due to extensive fragmentation the margins cannot be identified.  The roughened hepatic surface on the largest piece is inked blue.  Adjacent to the ?cystic component there is a solid nodule measuring 32 x 12 x12mm.  The smaller separate pieces are yellow tored.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - sections of the largest piece ?cystic component; 4 & 5 - (paired sections) solid nodule and ?cystic component including the blue inked surface (from the largest piece); 6 - nodule and adjacent liver; 7 - nodule and adjacent liver; 8 - nodule and adjacent liver; 9 & 10 - RS separate fragments.  Liver specials requested on block 8. (TO: EC; PJ/ta 7/8/65)

C.  Specimen labelled "Liver nodule resection margin" consists of an unorientated nodular piece of tissue 20 x 15 x 11mm. Part of the external surface is smooth and part of it is roughened. The roughened area is inked blue. Slicing reveals a pale solid nodule 10mm in maximum dimension.  AE 2 blocks. 
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Nodule right abdominal wall" consists of a nodular piece of tissue 48 x 36 x 27mm. The external surface is partly smooth and partly roughened. The roughened area is inked blue.  Slicing reveals a solid nodule with pale yellow periphery and pink and friable centre.  Blocks 1-3 - representative.  
(TO: MY/ec   7.8.64)  
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Losey): 
A.  Sections show gallbladder wall.  There is moderate thickening of the muscle layer and Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses project into and focally through the muscle layer into the subserosa.  There is a mild infiltrate of scattered chronic inflammatory cells through the wall.  No significant acute inflammation is seen.
B.  Sections of the largest piece of tissue show a deposit of well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma with an adjacent rim of dense fibrous tissue.  There is fibrofat on the opposite aspect ofthe dense fibrous tissue.  The tumour cells have somewhat larger, more pleomorphic nuclei than those seen in the previous resection specimen (45J76684) and nucleoli tend to be more prominent in the present tumour.  In some places the fibrous capsule is attenuated and shows diathermy artefact but no tumour is identified outside the fibrous capsule.  There is focal lymphovascular invasion by tumour in the fibrous capsule.  No tumour is seen extending to the described roughened surface on the largest piece.  The tumour has a well circumscribed, lobulated edge where it abuts on adjacent liver.  
Liver tissue adjacent to the nodule shows features of micronodular cirrhosis.  There is only a mild, patchy chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate in the fibrous septa and no piecemeal necrosis is seen.An Orcein stain for hepatitis B surface antigen shows focal positive staining.
A diathermied presumed resection margin is identified in liver adjacent to the tumour nodule on part of this largest piece of tissue and the tumour does not extend to this diathermied margin.  
Sections of the separate smaller tissue fragments show pieces of markedly haemorrhagic and partly necrotic tumour tissue.  
C.  Sections of the described nodule show a deposit of well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma, similar to specimen B.  There is an overlying thin fibrous capsule and this is intact.  The tumour has a smooth lobulated edge where it abuts onto adjacent liver.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  The adjacentliver shows micronodular cirrhosis.  The diathermied hepatic resection margin is free of tumour.
D.  Sections show a deposit of well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma with adjacent fibrofat and skeletal muscle.  The tumour is well circumscribed and appears completely excised.  No lymphovascular invasion is identified.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Gallbladder:  Chronic cholecystitis.
B.  Hepatic tumour:
1.  Well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma.
2.  Cirrhosis.
C.  Liver nodule:  Hepatocellular carcinoma.
D.  Nodule right abdominal wall:  Hepatocellular carcinoma.

