
Episode No:  98T363178O
987363.CUV

Junk, THERON 
Lab No:  98T36317,98T36317
Armley Park
EMU PLAINS    3805
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  3/7/2007
Sex:  F
Collected: 23/09/2065 at 17:09
Location:  BEAUDESERT HOSPITAL
DR KELVIN MONTY
Distribution:  FILE-COPY, DR Stuart, DR Ortolano,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ATTACHED
FURTHER SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT

HISTORY:  
Uterus, bilateral tubes and ovaries.  MMMT on curetting.  Left pelvic nodes, right pelvic lymph nodes, large common iliac node, omental biopsy.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  "UTERUS WITH CERVIX, BILATERAL OVARIES WITH TUBES".  Uterus with cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries.  The uterus with cervix measures 90x60x45mm.  The whole specimen weighs 190g.  The right fallopian tube measures 65mm in length with diameter up to 3mm. The right ovary measures 25x15x10mm.  The left fallopian tube measures 45mm in length with diameter up to 3mm.  The left ovary measures 25x15x10mm.  The anterior surgical margin is inked blue, posterior black.  The specimen is sectioned longitudinally.  The endometrium measures up to 1mm in thickness, the myometrium measures up to 20mm.  There is large tumour arising from the posterior body.  It measures 50x35x50mm. The tumour appears very polypoid.  At the point of attachment of the endometrium the tumour measures about 15mm wide, so the neck measures 15mm wide.  At the point of attachment of right fallopian tube there is possible fibroid identified measuring about 20mm in diameter. There is possible caesarean section scar seen within the anterior lower segment of uterus. There is some irregularity of the serosa of the fundus identified over the area of presumed fibroid.  
(1-6 RS of the polypoid lesion; 7 section of the lesion at the point of attachment to the posterior uterus [full thickness of the uterus is embedded]; 8-15 full face section of the uterus [8 anteriorcervix, 9 posterior cervix, 10&12 anterior body, 11&13 posterior body, block 13 includes point of attachment of the tumour, 14 anterior fundus, 15 posterior fundus]; 16 right fallopian tube, 17 right ovary; 18 left fallopian tube; 19 left ovary; 20 presumed fibroid from the right side of the fundus; 21 serosa over the fibroid; 22 right parametrial tissue; 23 left parametrial tissue).  
Further tissue:
(24&25 each two LS and TS cervix; 26-28 each one LSposterior cervix; 29&30 endometrium at anterior body; 31 endometrium at posterior body; 32&33 full face of tumour in relation to endocervix and endometrium; 34-37 continuous piece [34 tumour in relation to cervix; 35 tumour in relation toendometrium; 36&37 pedunculated part of the tumour; 38&39 tumour origin in relation to myometrium].  RS (M-38/ZH/ank)
B.  "RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODES".  Few pieces of fatty tissue measuring in aggregate 30x25x10mm.  There are six possible lymph nodes identified measuring from 2-5mm in maximal extent.
(1 two lymph nodes; 2 four lymph nodes).  RS (M-2)
C.  "LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES".  Few pieces of fatty tissue measuring in aggregate 50x25x15mm.  There are seven possible lymph nodes identified measuring 3-6mm in maximal extent.
(1 three lymph nodes; 2 four lymph nodes).  RS (M-2)
D.  "LEFT ILIAC LYMPH NODE".  One lymph node measuring 8mm in maximal extent.  AE 
E.  "OMENTAL BIOPSY".  Piece of omentum measuring 90x45x10mm.  There are no obvious lesions identified.  RS (M-3/SS/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:  (H Willits)
A.  The sections of the cervix show prominent inflammatory changes and reactive changes including lymphocyte and eosinophil infiltration and reactive stroma. The ectocervical epithelium is partly denuded.
 Arising in the lower uterine segment is an exophytic polypoid tumour that protrudes into the uterine lumen andcervical os.  There is widespread surface necrosis by the tumour. The tumour shows various morphologic appearances within stromal cells including highly cellular stroma with hyperchromatic nuclei and inconspicuous cytoplasm, other areas with a fascicular growth pattern with somewhat more abundant cytoplasm and more elongated nuclei. In some areas there is some tapering of nuclei.  Thick walled vessels are seen interspersed with collagenised, myxoid and cellular areas.  Focally, the stroma is somewhat reminiscent of endometrial stroma.  In the most cellular areas there is a mitotic rate in excess of 30/10 hpfs.  The surface of the polypoid tumour is largely necrotic, however, in several areas features suggestive of focal subepithelial condensation by stroma cells is identified. The epithelium has a vaguely polypoid appearance focally and with some irregularly shaped glands interspersed amongst spindling tumour seen at the attachmentpoint of the tumour to the uterine wall.  The surface epithelium has endometrioid, endocervical, non-descript columnar cell, and focal squamous metaplastic appearances.  No malignant epithelial component is identified.
The tumour at its attachment point to the uterine wall shows at most 1-2mm of myometrial invasion in a myometrial thickness of 10mm (block A12).  No vascular space invasion has been identified.
The endometrium away from the tumour nodule shows inactive to weakly proliferative pattern and there is also an area of prominent deep adenomyosis.  
The serosa appears unremarkable.
The ovaries and fallopian tubes and parametria are unremarkable.
Immunohistochemistry (Block A2).  The tumour is negative for CAM5.2, HMB45, S100, Desmin, CD34, CD10, and myogenin.  There is focal positivity for SMA and only focal weak staining for CD117.  
B.  Six lymph nodes are identified and show reactive changes only.
C.  Seven lymph nodes are identified and show reactive changes only.
D.  One lymph node is identified and shows reactive changes only.
E.  The sections show unremarkable appearingomentum.
Comment : The uterine polypoid tumour is favoured to be an "adenosarcoma with sarcomatous overgrowth". The typical polypoid leaf-like/phyllodes growth pattern is not well developed in this material and this maybe due to a combination of extensive surface necrosis of the tumour and the accompanying stromal overgrowth.  The tumour shows at most minimal invasion of the myometrium (stage 1B).  Adenosarcomas with sarcomatous overgrowth are thoughtto have a malignant potential similar to that of other high grade uterine sarcomas such as leiomyosarcoma.  
A further opinion is pending and a supplementary report will follow.
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  UTERUS - 
FAVOUR ADENOSARCOMA WITH SARCOMATOUS OVERGROWTH - SEE TEXT AND COMMENT.
B.  RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE -
-NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY.
C.  LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES-
-NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY.
D.  LEFT ILIAC LYMPH NODE -
-NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY.
E.  OMENTAL BIOPSY -
-NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY.
30/9/65 ank
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:
Slides sent to SWAN DISTRICTS HOSPITAL Hospital for Consultation/Review. Report received, it reads :
MICROSCOPIC REPORT:
Dear Rudolf
Thank you for sending this fascinating case.
Several of the sections consist of a low grade mullerian sarcoma resembling endometrial stromal sarcoma, subtending an otherwise relatively inactive endometrial surface. Focal necrosis of the sarcomatous component is seen and the mitotic rate is around 30 per 10 high power fields in the most cellular areas. There is very focal periglandular condensation (e.g. block A6, A30).  Hydropic degenerative changes are seen focally.  No phyllodes-like architecture is seen and no heterologous elements are found.  In all areas the glandular epithelium appears banal.  No lymphatic invasion is seen.  I have found it difficult to get an idea of the depth of the tumour but there appears to be less than half myometrial involvement.  Supplied immunohistochemistry shows tumour negative for myosin, myogenin, S100, HMB45, CAM5.2, CD10 (some non-specific staining in necrosis only), SMA, desmin, CD34 and CD117.
The endometrium shows some chronic inflammation including lymphocytes, plasma cells and eosinophils.
The non-neoplastic myometrium shows a little adenomyosis (e.g. blocks A13,A14) however, there is no obvious origin from this for the tumour in the blocks sampled. The cervix shows chronic inflammation but no evidence of in situ or invasive disease. The parametrial sections are unremarkable.
The fallopian tubes show cystic Walthard rests and some recent haemorrhage. Both ovaries show atrophy but otherwise normal morphology.
The lymph nodes and omentum are unremarkable .
COMMENT
Like you I favour adenosarcoma with sarcomatous overgrowth; this can only be applied when more than 25% of the tumour demonstrates pure sarcoma and this would easily be fulfilled here.  Unfortunately these cases tend to lose positivity for ER and PR and CD10.  I have request hormone receptors here as she may be suitable for enrolment in Paragon for example and will issue these in a supplementary report.  By the FIGO classification of adenosarcomas given in 2009 she would be Stage IB.
Is there any history of Tamoxifen usage?  This is a recognised association in a subset of cases.
Testing of JAZF1 rearrangement by FISH could be undertaken to exclude low grade endometrial stromal sarcoma, however, in theory this could also be seen in adenosarcoma.  Unfortunately we do not currently offer this service but that could change next year.
Thanks once again.
See also:
Wu RI; Schorge HO; Dal Cin P; Young RH; Oliva E. Mullerian adenosarcoma of uterus with low-grade sarcomatous overgrowth characterised by prominent hydropic change resulting in mimicry of a smooth muscle tumour.  International Journal of Gynaecological Pathology.  33(6):573-80, 2014 Nov.
McCluggage WG. Mullerian adenosarcoma of the female genital tract.  Advances in Anatomic Pathology.  17(2):122-9, 2010Mar.
SUMMARY
Uterus:
	- Favour adenosarcoma with sarcomatous overgrowth (ASSO).
	-Inner half myometrial invasion.
	-No lymphatic invasion.
Cervix:
	-No significant abnormality.
Pelvic Lymph Nodes:
	-No significantabnormality.
Omentum:
	-No significant abnormality.
REPORTED BY : Dr VAUGHN Kohnke (5/10/65)"
Full report scanned and filed in department.
6/10/65 ank
FURTHER SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:
Further supplementary report received from BEAUDESERT HOSPITAL Hospital regarding consultation/review.  It reads :
"SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:
Oestrogen and progesteronereceptors are negative (0% of tumour nuclei show positive staining, external controls are positive).  Our CD10 shows non-specific staining in necrotic tumour, negative in viable tumour.  WT1 negative.  Ki67 show diffuse positive stainingin tumour nuclei, likely around 80%.
SUPPLEMENTARY SUMMARY
Uterus - Favour adenosarcoma with sarcomatous overgrowth (ASSO).
REPORTED BY :  Dr. PALMER Clyburn (7/10/65)"
Full report scanned and filed in department.
7/10/65 ank

