Episode No:  41J167844K
4131678.LMK

OVERKAMP, Fabian Maurice 
Lab No:  41J16784
N Naperville Wheaton
BENDIGO  VIC  5232
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/1/2014
Sex:  F
Collected: 16/12/2065 at :
Location:  SEALS-WEIPA HOSPITAL
DR CAREY Dawne POMMIER
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Right inner thigh mass post chemotherapy, has HepB+ve.  Pre op radiotherapy - sarcoma.  Sutures - short superior, long lateral.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right inner thigh mass marking stitch short superior, long lateral" and consists of an orientated ellipse of skin measuring 115 x 25mm to a depth of 50mm.  There is muscle on the deep surface.  The skin has two orientating sutures, short superior and long lateral.  The skin surface is unremarkable.  The medial surface is inked black, lateral green, and the deep red.  Specimen is serially sectioned from superior to inferior.  On sectioning there is a circumscribed tan to yellow tumour, predominantly within fat and measuring approximately 31 x 25 x 25mm.   Thecut surface has a whorled appearance.  The margins are as follows: 1mm from the medial margin, 3mm lateral, 3mm deep, 29mm superior, 10mm superficial and approximately 50mm inferior.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - slice from superior margin; 3 & 4 - tumour and closest lateral margin; 5 & 6 - tumour in closest deep margin; 7 & 8 - tumour in closest medial margin; 9 & 10 - tumour and closest superficial margin; 11 - inferior margin slice fourteen; 12 to 14 - representative tumour.  Please see diagram.   (TO:EB; TP/ta 18/12/65) 
 

MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr K Skibski):
Sections show a circumscribed smooth muscle tumour composed of elongated spindle shaped cells with a fascicular architecture.  The central area is extensively hyalinised and sclerotic, consistent with the effects of pre-operative treatment.  Some of the remaining viable tumour is moderately cellular and shows mild nuclear atypia.  There are nucleoli present and occasional cells have eosinophilic intranuclear inclusions.  Mitoses are very infrequent.  Some of the hyalinised tissue shows infarct-like necrosis but no necrosis of viable tumour is seen.  No lymphovascular or perineural invasion is identified.
The tumour stains positive for smooth muscle actin and desmin.  An S100 stain is negative and a CD 34 stain highlights vessels.  The proliferation index with a Ki-67 stain is around 7%.
This is a smooth muscle tumour but the distinction in the present specimen between a leiomyoma and low grade leiomyosarcoma is difficult.  There is mild cytologic atypia and there are areas of moderate cellularity but mitoses are infrequent.  The previous biopsy report from Molecular Oncology Pathology (reference 41316-78LM) is noted; mitoses were not evident in the biopsy specimen but there was nuclear atypia and necrosis.  
The appearance in the present specimen has been modified by pre-operative treatment but overall it is considered that this tumour is best regarded as a low grade leiomyosarcoma. 
It is FNCLCC grade 1 (tumour differentiation score 1, mitosisscore 1, tumour necrosis score 0).  If the necrosis score is regarded as 1 (on the basis of the biopsy) then the tumour is still overall grade 1.
 
The tumour is 1.1mm from the medial margin (Intact fascia present), 4mm from thelateral margin, 4mm from the superior margin and 5mm from the deep margin.  It is well away from inferior and superficial margins. 

DIAGNOSIS:
Right inner thigh mass: 
- Well differentiated leiomyosarcoma.
- 1.1mm from the medial margin, see above for other surgical margins.
- FNLCC Grade 1.

