
Episode No:  67Y122684R
679122.SVL

BEDWARD, Fermin 
Lab No:  67Y12268
Anglesey Court
ESPERANCE  South Australia  1190
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  14/10/2012
Sex:  M
Collected: 16/02/2066 at 10:31
Location:  UROLOGY OPD-BALMAIN HOSPITAL
DR Caden DALIA CONTOPOULOS
Distribution:     FILE-COPY, DR DON, DR Lehnortt,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Small bowel tumour.  Small bowel nodule.  Sigmoid colon nodule.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel", consists of a segment of small bowel 150mm in length x 30mm in diameter.  There is a stapled margin spanning both surgical margins measuring 140mm in length.  On opening the wall thickness is 3mm along the normal bowel wall.  There is a thickened pale area of tumour which is circumferential over 100 x 50mm in area along the middle segment of small bowel.  Along this area, the bowel mucosa is dilated to 50mm in diameter.  The wall thickness is up to 20mm and the tumour appears to infiltrate though the serosa.  The tumour is approximately 20mm from one surgical margin inked blue and 22mm from the opposite surgical margin inked black.  The attached mesentery measures 50 x40 x 15mm and there is infiltrative tumour within the small bowel mesentery.  No lymph nodes are able to be identified. 
Blocks: 1 - blue surgical margin; 2 - black surgical margin; 3 to 6 - tumour; 7 - shave apical mesentery; 8 - tumour within mesentery; 9 - tumour for biobank. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Sigmoid colon", consists of three nodular pieces of firm grey tissue 20, 15 and 10mm each.  There is adherent fibrofatty tissue to these nodules.  Representative sections of each nodule in 3 blocks.
C.  Specimen labelled "Nodal disease", consists of a ragged piece of subcutaneous tissue 25 x 10 x 6mm containing a lymph node 15mm in maximum dimension.  Serially sectioned and AE 1 block.   (TO: WX;DTvo 16.2.66) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof Q Jarreau and Dr Q Diestler):
A. Sections show an infiltrating grade 1 follicular lymphoma throughout the length of the small bowel extending to the serosal surface and into the attached mesenteric adipose tissue. The lymphoma has an expanded non-polarised follicular architecture, with minimal interfollicular tissue. The lymphoma is comprised of mainly small cleaved centrocytes-like lymphocytes with angulated nuclei. There are very occasional larger centroblasts with cleared chromatin and nucleoli, approximately 3 per high powered field (Grade 1). There are scattered dendritic cells present. Mitoses are not prominent and the ki67 proliferation index varies between 5 to 20%. Most neoplastic follicles have low Ki67 expression, but scattered areas show increased expression, possibly representing a component of residual non-neoplastic mucosal lymphoid tissue.
Immunohistochemistry confirms a follicular B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
CD20 shows strong staining of follicular B cells. CD10, BCL2 also positively stain the atypical follicular population. 
CD21 highlights a tight well developed meshwork ofpositive cells within follicles.
Cyclin D1, CD23 are negative. 
CD3 and CD5 highlight the background population of T cells between and focally within follicles.
The main tumour mass is clear of the ends of the resection. Atypical lymphoid follicles, highly suspicious for mucosal lymphoma deposits are present at the margin in one end (black inked margin). 
The lymphoma involves the serosal surface in plaque-like deposits and the mesentery contains deposits of lymphoma throughout. The shave of the apical mesentery is positive for lymphoma. No normal lymph nodes are identified.
The small bowel is otherwise unremarkable and the non-involved areas show a normal villous architecture with no features to suggest an underlying enteropathy.
B. Sections show nodular deposits of follicular lymphoma infiltrating within fibroadipose tissue associated with dense stromal hyalinisation.
C. Sections show a nodular deposit of follicular lymphoma infiltrating within fibroadipose tissue.
(Note: Message left on Dr Q. Fillhart's mobile with a provisional report on 20/2/66. CB). Report faxed to Dr Q Rabine and Dr Q Levitre, Haematology.
Dr Q Lechlak has also seen this case. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Small bowel:
- Follicular lymphoma, Grade 1
- Surgical margins clear. Lymphoma extends through the serosal wall as well as through the attached mesentery.
B. Sigmoid colon: Deposits of follicular lymphoma
C. Nodal disease: Deposits of follicular lymphoma

