Episode No:  47E236974I
4712369.TMI

CASARELLA, LATRINA MISTY 
Lab No:  47E23697
Steer Ridge
GOLD COAST  Australian Capital Territory  7290
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  25/8/1993
Sex:  F
Collected: 18/02/2066 at 13:49
Location:  Immunology - MOUNT GAMBIER AND DISTRICTS HEALTH SERVICE
DR MURRAY Barney Newkirk
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
Intra op - ?peritoneal cancer.  Breast ca, GORD, OA, Hep B many years ago.  Laparotomy - inflamed appendix; small cystic mass right adnexa.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel nodule" consists of two pale grey and haemorrhagicpieces of tissue, each 5mm in maximum dimension.  AE for FS.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Chronic inflammation and fibrosis.  No evidence of malignancy.
Result to Dr Edythe KAISER by Dr Barrett at 1510H on 18.02.66
B.  Specimen labelled "Right tube and ovary" consists of a multiloculated cystic ovary, 57 x35 x 28mm.  The cyst lining is smooth and pale grey.  Sampled for frozen section (x3).  Remainder in formalin for paraffin section.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section one; 2 - frozen section two; 3 - frozen section three; 4to 7 - representative sections.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Inflamed benign multilocular cyst ?mesothelial ?serous cystadenoma.
Result to Dr Brice (Gynae-Fellow) by Dr K Gulliksen/Dr K Mcbeth at 1745H on 18.02.66
C.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel mesentery" consists of two tan/haemorrhagic tissue fragments 5mm and 7mm in maximum dimension.  AE for FS.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Inflammatory nodule ?fat necrosis.  No evidence of malignancy.
Result to Dr Andrea (Fellow) by Dr K Hasse/Dr K Bruender at 1745H on 18.02.66
D.  Specimen labelled "Left ovary" consists of an ovary measuring 24 x 17 x 9mm with adherentfallopian tube segment, including fimbrial end, measuring 24 x 7mm.
Blocks:  1 to 4 - TS tube and ovary; 5 - LS fimbrial end.  AE.
E.  Specimen labelled "Hemicolectomy" consists of a right hemicolectomy specimen including a segment of large bowel (caecum and ascending colon; 170 in length x 68mm open circumference), ileum (195 in length x 58mm open circumference), mesentery (65mm width), and appendix (38 length x 15mm diameter).  The distal and proximal surgicalmargins (inked blue) are stapled together in a loop. 
The appendix is partly adherent to the serosal surface of the terminal ileum and is encased in fibroadipose tissue.  The periappendiceal serosal surface has a patchy pale grey and tan appearance.  On section, the appendix has a wall thickness of 2mm and contains tan soft material; a site of rupture is not identified.
There is an adventitial nodule that partly bulges into the small bowel lumen and measures 27mm in maximum dimension.  The cut surface of the nodule has a largely pale yellow appearance consistent with fat necrosis; tumour is not macroscopically identified.  The nodule is situated 75mm from the closest proximal resection margin, and is located 70mm proximalto the appendix.
The bowel mucosa is otherwise macroscopically unremarkable.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified in the mesenteric tissue.
Blocks:  1 - LS proximal surgical margin (ileum); 2 - LS distal surgical margin(ascending colon); 3 & 4 - composite LS mid appendix and periappendiceal tissue (3 - includes adherent bowel); 5 & 6 - LS mid appendix and periappendiceal tissue; 7 - LS appendix and periappendiceal tissue; 8 & 9 - LS appendix with adherent bowel; 10 & 11 - LS ileal nodule; 12 - LS terminal ileum; 13 - LS large bowel; 14 - presumed apical lymph node, bisected; 15 - single lymph node, bisected; 16 - single lymph node, bisected; 17 to 19 -lymph nodes as seen.  (TO: NC; GT/rt 20.2.66)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr K Devol):
A. The paraffin sections show fibrofatty tissue with moderate chronic inflammation. Lymphocytes, plasma cells, histiocytes and afew scattered eosinophils are seen.  There is vascular and fibroblastic proliferation, consistent with a reactive process. There is no evidence of malignancy.
B.  The paraffin sections show a serous cystadenoma in the ovary. There is patchy chronic inflammation in the fallopian tube especially in the mucosa. An area of organising haemorrhage is also seen (block B6).  The tube appears adherent to the ovary.  There is no evidence of malignancy or dysplasia.
C. The paraffin sections show soft tissues with haemorrhage and active chronic inflammation with many foamy macrophages. There is noevidence of malignancy.
D. The sections show patchy chronic inflammation in the fallopian tube.  Thin walled serous cysts are seen adjacent to the tube. Corpora albicantes and mesothelial inclusion cysts are seen in the ovary. A few papillae are seen on the surface of the ovary. There is noevidence of malignancy or dysplasia.
E. The sections show serosal congestion and acute inflammation to varying extent, throughout the length of small and large intestine.  The nodule in the ileum is an area of active chronic inflammation through all layers of the ileum and adjacent mesentery with associated fibrosis. The ileum in other areas shows no significant abnormality in the mucosa, submucosa and muscularis propria aside from patchymild inflammation. There are similar areas of active chronic inflammation in the appendix and adjacentcolon.  Aggregates of chronic inflammatory cells, fibrosis and dystrophic calcification are seen in the mesentery in the areas of adhesion, with areas of organising haemorrhage, haemosiderin deposition and focal mild acute inflammation. There are thirteenreactive mesenteric lymph nodes, showing follicular hyperplasia and mild sinus histiocytosis.  There is no evidence of malignancy or atypia.
 CONCLUSION
A.Small bowel nodule: Chronic inflammation.
B. Right tube and ovary: Serous cystadenoma.
C. Small bowel mesentery: Active chronic inflammation.
D. Left ovary; Mesothelial inclusions cysts.
E. Right hemicolectomy: Patchy mesenteric inflammation, organising haemorrhage, adhesions.

