
 8955387.VEF
OSTERSTUCK, SONNY
89N53878

Last edited : 2/3/2066		Page: 2
HISTORY:  
Low grade appendix tumour. Secondary redo peritonectomy.  Peritoneal tumour.  Part of stomach.  Part of right diaphragm.
MACROSCOPIC:  
"PMP UPPERABDOMEN".
Stomach - A portion of stomach measuring up to70x35x20mm with a linear resection margin (removed, inked blue).  The external surface is ragged with some mucinous tumour deposit.  The mucosa shows some haemorrhagic areas and is otherwise unremarkable.
(1&2 RS with resection margin).  
DIAPHRAGM - Multiple pieces of firm grey to brown tissue with mucinous deposits on the surface measuring in aggregate 50x40x20mm.  
(3&4 RS)
Peritoneal Disease - Multiple pieces of peritoneum with globs of mucin, measuring in aggregate 40x30x30mm. 
(5 RS; 6 tumour reserve block).  RS (M-6/EE/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr V Vegetabile)
Sections from the resection margin of the portion of stomach show acid-secreting gastric mucosa and underlying gastric wall. Within the focally disrupted muscularis propria, there are pools of extracellular mucin, together with strips of mucinous epithelium showing high-grade nuclear features. One of these mucin pools with high-grade nuclei within the mucin is seen 1.5mm from the inked resection margin. Focally, small clumps of mucinous epithelium with high-grade nuclear features are seen within the muscularis, and some of these have an adjacent desmoplastic stromal reaction. The features are in keeping with involvement by mucinous adenocarcinoma. Deposits of extracellular mucin and mucinous carcinoma, with a cellular reaction, are also seen focally on the serosal surface. The gastric mucosa shows no intestinal metaplasia, and the Giemsa stain for Helicobacter-like organisms is negative.
Sections of the diaphragm show striated muscle at one side, with attached fibrous tissue containing pools of extracellular mucin, lined by strips of mucin secreting epithelium with intermediate to high-gradenuclear features. There is also a piece of liver tissue with mucinous tumour and epithelium within attached fibrous tissue. Representative sections of peritoneum show involvement by pools of extracellular mucin and strips of mucinous epithelium with intermediate to high-grade nuclear features. 
DIAGNOSIS:  
PMP UPPER ABDOMEN:
- INVOLVEMENT OF STOMACH, DIAPHRAGM AND PERITONEUM BY MUCINOUS NEOPLASM WITH HIGH-GRADE NUCLEAR FEATURES, AND FOCAL FEATURES IN KEEPING WITH MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA.
2/2/66 cy 

