Episode No:  27M596853V
2745968.OJV

ANDROLEWICZ, MARGRETT MALIK 
Lab No:  27M59685
Windshire
LEETON  Northern Territory  1212
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  11/2/2029
Sex:  F
Collected: 09/09/2065 at 12:37
Location:  DAY SURGERYUNIT-AUGATHELLA HOSPITAL
PRO Allene JACQUES FEIGHT
Distribution:     FILE-COPY
HISTORY:     
Case of pseudomyxoma peritonei, sigmoid colon to r/o adenoa. Frozen section. 
Gallbladder, omentum, rt colon, case of PMP.
MACROSCOPIC: 
A. 'SIGMOID COLON'. A length of colon with sutures each end. Two haemorrhagic nodular areas on the serosalsurface each marked with a suture. There is a central nodule approximately 10mm and a transverse section was taken for frozen section. 
Frozen section: 'Endometriosis'. 
Reported by Dr H Kenebrew by phone to Professor Doug 9.9.65. Discussion with Professor regarding the second nodule towards one end (also for frozen section), measuring 8mm in maximum extent and a transverse section was performed for frozen section. 
Frozen section: 'Endometriosis'.
Reported by Dr H Heade by phone to anaesthetist on 9.9.65.
(1 CP block remainder of frozen section from the central nodule; 2 also CP block remainder of frozen section  from the second nodule towards one end; 3 resection margin that is closest to the second nodule; 4 other resection margin; 5 sections from the second nodule; 6-8 sections from the second nodule; 9and10 contain lymph nodes,nal ileum. The whole length of the specimen is 110mm. The colon measures 70mm and the terminal ileum measures 40mm in length. There is a haemorrhagic protruberent rounded nodule up to 25 mm in diameter and 10 mm in height on the serosalsurface of the base of the caecum near the ileocaecal valve. The remainder of the serosa is unremarkable. The mucosal surface is unremarkable. Cut sectioning of the haemorrhagic nodule, firm white tissue and some areas of calcification. Firm white area measures up to 15mm. The appendix is difficult to identified within this distorted nodular area. Eleven lymph nodes identified ranging from 4-15mm. There is a piece of omentum up to 460mm. Multiple haemorrhagic nodules areidentified ranging from 5-20mm. The largest nodule is calcified. 
Gallbladder:
A intact gallbladder 50mm in length and up to 25mm in diameter. The external surface is grey and smooth. The gallbladder was filled with bile and multiple brown and block stones ranging from 5-10mm. The wall measures 2mm thick and the mucosal surface is green and velvety. No lesions are identified. 
(1and2 gallbladder [1 TS from cystic duct and body; 2 LS from fundus]; 3-9 sections from the colon and terminal ileum, [3 distal resection margin; 4 proximal resection margin; 5-9 sections through the colon with nodule]; 10-14 sections through sections of lymph node, [10and11 each one lymph node; 12two lymph nodes; 13 three lymph nodes; 14 four lymph nodes]; 15-18 sections through omentum). RS (M-18/SR/ht).
Further: 19 last section edge of base of caecum nodule; all lesion embedded; OV
MICROSCOPIC:   
A. SIGMOID COLON: 
The section of colon shows areas of endometriosis extending from the peritoneal surface into the muscularis propria of the colon with distortion and nodule formation. There is surface granulation tissue and within the granulation tissue there are some small deposits of acellular mucin.  Endometriosis also involves the peritoneal surface. Sample mesocolic lymph nodes are negative for tumuor (0/5).
No mucinous epithelium is identified in the surface mucin deposits.
B. PERITONEAL TUMOUR RIGHT COLON, OMENTUM, GALLBLADDER: 
R colon:
The nodular area at the base of caecum is distorted appendix and could be either short distorted appendix or distorted appendix stump if there is a previous operative removal. There is marked endometriosis in the appendix muscle wall and marked distortion. At the distal end of the short distortedappendix there is a low grade appendiceal mucinous neoplasm (LAMN) with a villous epithelial lining and focal calicification of the thinned wal. The wall of the distal appendix is absent in sections at the tip region and there is low cellularity mucin and granulation tissue forming a surface nodule that appears to be outside appendix (mucinous disease involves peritoneum at this site as far as can be assessed). Associated with this peritoneal mucin there are small strips of low grade mucinous epithelium in the mucin outside the appendix wall (extraappendiceal neoplastic mucinous epithelium).  Sampled mesenteric lymph nodes are negative for tumour (0/10). Attached to oneof the surface pieces near the appendix in one section there is a small area of fallopian tube tissue including part of fimbrial end. The mucinous neoplasm is well clear of the bowel mucosal margins.
Omentum: The omentum has focal areas of fat necrosis, patchy haemorrhage and a rounded area ofdystrophic calcification. The nodule of calcification is associated with adjacent acellular mucin deposits.
Gallbladder:  Sections show mild chronic cholecystitis
Comment:
The nodular lesion at the base of caecum ?distorted short appendix or ?appendix stump if previously removed, shows a low grade mucinous neoplasm, with mucin and mucinous epithelium involving the peritoneal surface in this localised area as far as a can be assessed (right lower quadrant periappendiceal in the sections).
Lesions of this type are of high risk of recurrence and developing fully developed or pseudomyxoma peritoneii. There are acellular mucin deposits elsewhere in the sections (small bowel surface, specimen A) as described above.
DIAGNOSIS: 
A. SIGMOID COLON -
- endometriosis of peritoneal surface and muscularis propria;
- surface granulation tissue and small deposits of acellular mucin.
B. PERITONEAL TUMOUR RIGHT COLON, OMENTUM, GALLBLADDER -
- short distorted appendix (or ?appendix stump if previously removed);
- appendix shows endometriosis and a low grade appendiceal mucinous neoplasm (LAMN); 
- mucin and low grade mucinous epitheliuminvolves the peritoneal surface in this localised area (right lower quadrant, periappendiceal in the sections); 
- appendiceal/peritoneal mucinous lesion is of high risk of recurrence/developing fullydeveloped pseudomyxoma peritoneii.
- acellular mucin deposits in other sections sampled (omentum, sigmoid colon).
18/9/65, H Radwick.  

