Episode No:  44Z365832F
4493658.KGF

Chkouri, KORY Wilfred 
Lab No:  44Z36583
Paroma
WANGARATTA  ACT  2653
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  22/2/1992
Sex:  F
Collected: 21/05/2065 at 17:19
Location:  Molecular Oncology-CLARE HOSPITAL
DR FRANCISCO REGINIA PORTH
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Chest wall lesion excised, sarcoma.  Sarcoma excision soft stridor ?cause.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Superior medial margin" consists of a piece of bony soft tissue measuring 18 x14 x 8mm.  AE 2 blocks.  (Decalcified). 
 
  
B.  Specimen labelled "New inferior margin sutured mark" consists of an irregularly shaped piece of fibroadipose tissue measuring 47 x 33 x 27mm.  There is a small amount of attached skeletal muscle measuring 11 x 9 x 5mm.  There is a suture on one irregular surface marking new inferior margin.  The sutured surface is inked blue and the opposite surface is inked black.  AE 6 blocks - sequentially sectioned.
C.  Specimen labelled "Left chest wall, short superior, long lateral, medium medial", consists of an irregularly shaped (roughly trapezoidal) segment of chest wall measuring 140 x 92 x 70mm.  The specimen includes all chest wall tissue extending between an overlying, irregularly shaped piece of skin(95 x 42mm), and the parietal pleural surface (140 x 92mm) which covers multiple ribs.  Orienting sutures are in situ.  The skin surface is unremarkable.  The superior margin is inked blue, inferior margin is inked black, and deep margin (pleural surface) is inked red.  Removal of the ribs and pleural surfacefrom the remainder of the specimen reveals a tumour (up to 100 x 70mm in area) predominately located in thesoft tissue superficial to the ribs, but which extends through the ribs.  The tumour has both cystic (filled with a mucinous, maroon-coloured fluid) and solid areas; it has a patchypale grey/yellow/haemorrhagic colour.  The adjacent ribs appear to have been obliterated by the tumour.  On section, the tumour appears to abut the inferior and deep margins, andappears to extend to within 4mm of the superior margin.  It appears to abut the medial surface of the specimen, and extend to within 1mm of the lateral surface. 
Representative tissue processed.  Please refer to photo/block diagram.
Blocks: C1 to C3 - tumour, central region (TO: TM; IY/ta 22/5/65); C4 to C7 - sub-pleural portion, including proximity to deep margin; C8 to C10 - closest inferior margin; C11 to C13 - closest superior margin; C14 - muscle at the superior margin; 15 to 18 - closest medial surface; 19 to 21 - closest lateral surface; 22 to 24 - tumour; 25 - reserve tumour block.  (TO: ER; FM/ta 25/5/65); 26-29 - representative deep margin (decalcified). (TO: YY/ec 27.5.65) 
 
  
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof M Gravat): 
The specimen required dissection in stages following fixation and decalcification.
A.  All of the tissue has been embedded. Sections of soft tissue show cartilage and skeletal muscle admixed with areas of myxoid tumour, some of which appears necrotic. The myxoid tumour (morphologically similar to the main tumour mass in specimen C) merges with more mature, but still cytologically atypical cartilaginous tissue which extends close to the blue inked surface of the specimen, corresponding to the new, sutured margin.
The tissue is fragmented, making interpretation difficult, however, this margin is in doubt.
B.  All of the tissue has been embedded. Sections of softtissue show tumour infiltration to the blue-inked margin ("new inferior margin") in multiple regions.  The tumour is seen interdigitating between skeletal muscle fibres and extending into mature adipose tissue ina highly infiltrative manner.  
C.  The chest wall excision has been extensively sampled.
Sections show a low grade chondrosarcoma with a predominantly myxoid appearance. The growth pattern shows an admixture of nodular and infiltrative areas with extensive infiltration into skeletal muscle and adipose tissue.
There is variable hypercellularity and pleomorphism, ranging from mild to moderate. Scattered mitoses are present, with a mitotic rate of approximately 1 - 2 per 10 hpf.
No areas of dedifferentiation are identified.
of calcification and devitalised bone are present, possibly presenting fragments of destroyed rib, however the tumour does not appear to be producing osteoid.
The tumour is 0.2mm from the deep margin (C5 and C6), 0.5mm from the inferior margin (C8), 6mm from the superior margin(C13) and 2mm from the lateral side (C19 to 21). The medial margin is positive with tumour infiltrating within skeletal muscle to the inked margin in a number of areas (blocks C15 - 18). 
DIAGNOSIS:
A. SUPERIOR MEDIAL MARGIN: MARGIN IN DOUBT (SEE ABOVE)
B. NEW INFERIOR MARGIN: NEW MARGIN INVOLVEMENT
C. LEFT CHEST WALL EXCISION: MYXOID CHONDROSARCOMA WITH EXTENSION THROUGH RIBS
MEDIAL MARGIN INVOLVEMENT

