 7139088.CSH
Chaulklin, Alvin Lang
71J90881,71J90881

Last edited : 28/1/2066		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Left adnexal mass, pleural effusion, CCF.  ?Struma ovarii, ovarian mass hyperthyroidism.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary" consists of a fallopian tube measuring 35mm in length with attached ovary measuring 50 x 40 x 35mm.  Halfof the ovary has a smooth nodular external surface.  The cut surface of the ovary has a homogeneous solid white nodule.  No haemorrhage on the crest is seen.  Representative of thenodules for frozen section in two blocks.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - frozen section deblocked; 3 to 5 - further representative sections of nodule and surrounding ovary; 6 - fallopian tube.
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Right tube and ovary" consists of a fallopian tube measuring 65mm in length with attached ovary measuring 35 x 15 x 15mm.  At one end of the ovary is a 15mm nodule which has a homogeneous white cut surface.  Representative of the nodules for frozen section in one block.  
Blocks: 1 - frozen section deblocked; 2 to 4 - 90% of ovary AE; 5 - representative fallopian tube.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A & B.  Favour bilateral ovarian fibroma.  
Result to Dr Michale Packer by Dr U Browers and Dr U Dhillon at 11:10am on 26/01/66.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Omentum biopsy" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 65 x 20 x 6mm.  No lesions are identified within the fibrofatty tissue.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.  
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Endometrial biopsy" consists of scanty endometrial curettings measuring 5 x 2 x 1mm.  AE 1 block.   (TO:VQ; EX/ta 27/1/66) 
 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr U Countess):
A. Sections of the left ovary show a fibroma.  The lesion is circumscribed, and is composed of bland spindled shaped tumour cells arranged in a storiform pattern within fibrous stroma. Tumour cells with pale pink to clear cytoplasm are focally present. There is no evidence of malignancy. The left fallopian tube is unremarkable.
B. Sections of the right ovary show a fibroma.  The lesion appears circumscribed on low power, and is composed of bland spindled shaped tumour cells with a storiform architecture.  There is no evidence of malignancy. The right fallopian tube is unremarkable.
C. Sections show omental fat with no abnormality detected.
D. Section show scant squamous and cuboidal epithelium only. There is insufficient endometrial tissue present for assessment.
DIAGNOSIS:
A and B. Bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries: bilateral ovarian fibromas
C. Omental biopsy: no abnormality detected
D. Endometrial biopsy:  insufficient material for diagnosis.

