
Episode No:  71O230771M
7152307.UEM

Nobles, Jospeh 
Lab No:  71O23077
Fibich
ARARAT  ACT  3570
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  16/6/1984
Sex:  M
Collected: 13/02/2064 at 16:57
Location:  PERI-OPERATIVEUNIT-CONCORD REPATRIATION HOSPITAL
DR IRVIN Otis Whitelow
Distribution:  NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Enlarging cyst distal pancreas.  Cystoprostatectomy + urethrectomy.  Ileal conduit.  High grade urothelial Ca.  HTN.  Anaemia.  Distal pancreas and spleen.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Pancreas and spleen" and consists of a specimen of spleen (140 x 90 x 55mm), distal pancreas (80 x 55 x 30mm) andattached fatty tissue (up to 120 x 55 x 45mm).  There is a separate piece of fatty tissue 70 x 70 x 50mm.  Most of the external surface of the pancreas is covered by fatty tissue.  The anterior surface is inked blue and the posterior surface inked black.  The pancreas is sectioned from proximal to distal.  Present in six slices there is a cystic and solid tumour 42 x 25 x 22mm.  The tumour is 6mm from the proximal stapled margin, 1mm from anterior surface, 2mm from posterior surface, 6mm from inferior edge of the pancreas and 30mm from superior edge of the peri-pancreatic soft tissue.  The solid component of the tumour has a mucinous appearance.  The spleen has a smooth capsular surface.  The trim spleen weighs 190g.  A few lymph nodes are identified within the peripancreatic fatty tissue.  No nodules or lymph nodes are seen within the separate piece of fatty tissue.  No focal lesions are identified within the spleen.  All of the tumour is blocked.  Please refer to attached diagram.  
Blocks: 1 - shaved proximal margin; 2 to 8 - TS slice one (proximal) after removing the stapled margin (the sections do not include the true proximal margin); 9 & 10 - (paired sections) inferior half of slice two (9 - anterior; 10 - posterior); 11 to 15 - all of slice three blocked from superior to inferior; 16 to 18 - inferior half of slice four (the sections do not include the soft tissue on the inferior edge); 19 to 21 - inferior half of slice five (21 is disrupted at the inferior edge); 22 to 24 - inferior half of slice six; 25 - section of pancreas away from tumour; 26 - lymph nodes as seen adjacent to distal pancreas; 27 - one ?lymph node adjacent to distal pancreas; 28 to 30 - sections of splenic hilar fatty tissue looking for lymph nodes; 31 - section of separate piece of fatty tissue; 32 - RS spleen.  (TO: YG; OV/ta 1/5/66); 33 and 34 - the remainder of the proximal slice (the new margin after removing the staples is inked red); 35 and 36 - paired sections of pancreas; 37 - section of pancreas; 38 and 39 - paired sections of pancreas; 41 and 42 - paired sections of pancreas; 43 and 44 - paired sections of pancreas; 45 to 47 - paired sections ofpancreas; 48 - ?lymph nodes as seen.  All of the pancreas is blocked.  (TO: UC;UN/vo 1.6.66) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr T Cork):
The specimen is entirely embedded and examined.  Sections of pancreas show an intraduct papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) involving the main and branch ducts of the distal pancreas, measuring approximately42mm (gross estimate).  The IPMN is predominantly of gastric type with admixed intestinal foci and shows predominantly low and intermediate grade dysplasia with a single focus of highgrade dysplasia.  The main duct is dilated and filled with a gastric foveolar type mucinous epithelium associated with small tubular pyloric-type glands. The proliferation is arranged either as relatively flat or undulating epithelium or variably complex papillae and cystically dilated tubular structures.  Scattered goblet cells are seen in some areas.  CDX2 immunoexpression is present in less than 10% of tumour nuclei (other immunostains unavailable).  The involved branch ducts include foci well away from the main cystic tumour.  The focus of high grade dysplasia, which measures approximately 3mm, is located close to the anterior surface of the pancreas and involves a duct profile adjacent to the main duct and.  The tissue is focally disrupted here but where the interface with the anterior pancreatic surface is present, the focus is 0.3mm from the surface.  The high grade dysplastic focus is arranged in a papillary and tubular pattern composed of columnar cells with round to elongated, partly pseudostratified nuclei, vesicular chromatin and variably prominent nucleoli.  It is well clear of the resection margin.  There is an associated periductal stromal reaction but no definite invasion. The IPMN extends to the proximal excision margin where there low grade dysplasia.  There is associated marked pancreatic parenchymal atrophy, fibrosis and some chronic inflammation in the vicinity of the main tumour.  The spleen shows preserved architecture and is unremarkable.
Selected slides are shown to A/Prof T Myron and Prof T Ostenberg (THE ROYAL WOMEN'S HOSPITAL Hospital) who agree that there is a focus of high grade dysplasia but no invasion.
SUMMARY PANCREATIC TUMOUR 

Specimen type:  
Distal pancreatectomy and spleen.
Histological tumour type
Intraduct papillary mucinous tumour (IPMN), mixed gastric and intestinal type.
Histological grade
Predominantly low to intermediate, focally high grade dysplasia

Microscopic tumour sites 
Centred in distal pancreas (main and branch ducts)

Maximum tumour diameter
At least 42mm
Lymphovascular invasion 
Not identified

Perineural invasion 
Not identified
Pre-invasive lesion 
Present (IPMN)
Margins:
Pancreatic resection margin: 
Involved by IPMN with low grade dysplasia (block 1)

Surfaces: 
Anterior: 0.1mm (block 9) 
Posterior: 4mm (block 15)
Lymph nodes:
Number found: Fifteen (15)
Number involved: Zero (0)
Other pathologies:
Peritumoural atrophy, fibrosis and chronic inflammation.
Spleen; no significant abnormality.
DIAGNOSIS:
Distal pancreatectomy and spleen:
-  Intraduct papillary mucinous tumour with predominantly low and intermediate grade dysplasia; focal high grade dysplasia.
-  Positive pancreatic resection margin (low grade dysplasia only)
-  Fifteen negative lymph nodes (0/15).

