Episode No:  66P671939S
665671.YKZ

TENA, EDWIN Lucius 
Lab No:  66P67193
Bracken Hill
MERIMBULA  New South Wales  5204
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  10/6/2028
Sex:  F
Collected: 15/10/2065 at 14:37
Location:  CLERMONT MULTI-PURPOSE HEALTH SERVICE
DR LINDSEY Soland
Distribution:     FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (1) ATTACHED 22/10/65 further immunostain
HISTORY:  
Pelvic mass.  CA-125 = 181.  Frozen section. Uterus. Pouch of Douglas, peritoneum, fallopian tube, right. Appendix, omentum. 
MACROSCOPIC:  
A. 'LEFT OVARY AND TUBE'.  The specimen is multiple separate pieces of an ovary mass lesion.  The total specimen weighs 480g.  The largest piece of ovary is 90x80x40mm and a has a smooth surface with attached fallopian tube 50x7mm.  The fallopian tube is unremarkable.  The ovary contains a predominantly solid, soft, fleshing, pale tan and grey tumour.  The separate largest piece of ovary tissue is 100x80x40mm and has a haemorrhagic and irregular surface in areas and has an area ofnecrosis at one edge with apparent perforation.  Other pieces of the ovary tumour are irregular and appear to come from the centre of the cystic tumour, in aggregate 150x150x70mmand includes some solid pale yellow areas up to about 30mm in diameter.  
(1 frozen section; 2and3 fallopian tube; 4 surface of ovary lesion, piece with fallopian tube; 5 surface of separate more haemorrhagic piece; 6 surface of haemorrhagic piece with apparent perforation site; 7-11 sections of central tumour; 12 further surface of haemorrhagic piece).  RS (M-12/VC/nh). Further tissue: 13,14,15 tumour with intact area of surface; 16 central tumour; IY
Frozen section report:  'Favour granulosa cell tumour'.  To Dr WADJARRI ZINTER, 2.35pm, 15/10/65, Q. Grafe.  
B. 'UTERUS AND CERVIX'. A uterus with cervix measuring 100mm superoinferiorly, 60mm mediolaterally and 45mmanteroposteriorly. The specimen weighs 120g. The serosal surface is unremarkable. The cervix is unremarkable.  The endometrium measures up to 4mm in thickness with no focal lesions. There is a thinned ?scar area anterior lower uterine segment ?old cesarean scar. The myometrium measures up to 17 mm. No lesions are identifed within the myometrium.  The posterior inferior peritoneal surface is brown and granular. There is more limited granularity over the anterior inferiorperitoneal surface (1and2 cervix; 3and4 lower uterine segment; 5-8 sections through the body). RS (M-8). Further 9 posterior peritoneum; 10 posterior peritoneum close to inferior cervix; 11 anterior inferior peritoneum; MD
C.'POUCH OF DOUGLAS PERITONEUM'. Fibrous fatty tissue measuring 16x11x9mm. No tumour identified. AE (M-1).
D. 'RIGHT FALLOPIAN TUBE'. A fallopian tube with fimbrial end measuring 45mm in length and up to 7mm in diameter. No abnormalities identified.  (1 contains fimbrial end; 2 representative pieces through the tube). RS (M-2).
E. 'APPENDIX'. An appendix 65 mm in length and up to 8mm in diameter. The external surface is grey and smooth. There is mesoappendix attached along 60 mm of the length. The appendix wall measures up to 3mm thick. No faecolith or lesions are identified. (1 LS from the tip and a TS from the proximal resection margin; 2 multiple RS from the middle). RS (M-2).
F. 'OMENTUM'. A piece of omentum 240x75x10 mm. There are illdefined soft brownish areas over most of the specimen but no solid or firm areas are seen.. RS (M-4/PV/ht).
MICROSCOPIC:  
A.  Sections show an adult granulosa cell tumour. The tumour is solid and cystic and shows sheet like and focally trabecular architecture.  In some areas the cells are larger with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm consistent with areas of luteinisation.  Mitotic rate isvariable generally low 1/10 hpfs but with one slide A18 with 7/10 hpfs. No atypical mitoses are seen. There is extensive tumour necrosis involving central tissue and surface tissue and there is tumour rupture through areas of necrosis.Away from the perforation tumour extends focally to the partly necrotic peritoneal surface (A5). There are organising vascular thrombi in vessels within the tumour (A16).
The attached fallopian tube is unremarkable. The surface tubal epithelium at the tips of fimbria shows nonspecific reactive changes.
Immunostains, ovarian tumour: There is variable positive staining for WT1, alpha-inhibin, and calretinin, with focal staining for keratin AE1/AE3.p53 shows nonspecific non-uniform moderate positive staining.
B.  Ectocervical and endocervical mucosa is normal.  There is a thin fibrotic area at the anterior low uterine segment, suggestive of old caesarean scar or similar.  The endometrium is secretory pattern and shows no atypical features.  There are some small deposits of granulosa cell tumour seeded to the posterior inferior peritoneal tissue within granulation tissue. There is a small focus of endosalpingiosis present.  
C.  Sections show peritoneal tissue with underlying adipose tissue.  There is a relatively extensive surface layer of granulation tissue containing haemosiderin deposits indicative of previous haemorrhage, and within the granulation tissue there are multiple separate small nodules of granulosa cell tumour seeded to the peritoneal tissue.  There is a small focus of endosalpingiosis present.  
D.  The fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality. The surface tubal epithelium at the tips of fimbria show nonspecific reactive changes.
E.  There is a cross section of an enterobius worm within the appendix but no evidence of appendicitis. 
.  The omentum shows multiple areas of reactive mesothelial hyperplasia.  Tumour deposits are not identified.  
FIGO stage (FIGO 2014):  IIB (Extension to other pelvic intraperitoneal tissues)

DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  LEFT TUBE AND OVARY - Partly necrotic and ruptured ovarian adult granulosa cell tumour, focal ovarian surface involvement, unremarkable fallopian tube.

B.  UTERUS AND CERVIX - small deposits of granulosa cell tumour seeded to the posterior inferior peritoneal tissue within granulation tissue

C.  POUCH OF DOUGLAS PERITONEUM - multiple separate small nodules of granulosa cell tumour seeded to the peritoneal tissue.  

D.  RIGHT FALLOPIAN TUBE - No significant abnormality

E.  APPENDIX - Lumenal enterobius worm, otherwise unremarkable.  

F.OMENTUM - Reactive surface mesothelial hyperplasia, no tumour identified 

16/10/65, Q Mckeone.  nh
- - - -
Supplementary report: (1)
Further immunostain, tumour, block A7: 
EMA: negative.
Expected result. Above diagnosis unchanged.
/10/65, Q Cos.  

