Episode No:  10L093993E
104093.ZYH

BUCHELI, Sharita 
Lab No:  10L09399
Double R
BATEHAVEN  WA  7005
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  1/4/1992
Sex:  M
Collected: 03/10/2065 at 09:38
Location:  PaLMS-FLINDERS ISLAND MULTI PURPOSE CENTRE
DR JARROD TIMOTHY Wheelen
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

CLINICAL:
Ultra low Hartmann's for lower rectal cancer.  Prostate Ca, radiation proctitis.
Additional information from Dr Denver Dorosan (Colorectal Intern):  Difficult dissection;  Intraoperatively 1cm clearance of tumour from both distal and radial margins.


MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Rectum" and consists of a partially opened segment of large bowel and rectum, 190mm in length and 75mm circumference, with mesocolon up to 60mm in width.  The distal portion of the resection is slightly ragged.  The anterior peritoneal reflection is 45mm from the distal end of the resection.  Within the rectum, sitting astride the peritoneal reflection, is an ulcerated tumour with a raised rolled edge.  The tumour is 45 x 40 x 7mm.  The tumour appears to be 9mm from the distal end of the specimen.  The tumour infiltrates through the muscularis propria into the perirectal fat.  The tumour appears to be 3mm clear of the anterior radial margin and 4mm from the posterior mesocolon margin.  There is a semi-detached polypoid fragment offriable haemorrhagic bowel wall, 45 x 15 x 10mm, located between the tumour and the distal end of the specimen.  The distal end of the specimen and the underside of the semi-detached polypoid fragment are inked black.  The posterior mesocolon and circumferential radial margins are inked blue.  The bowel wall adjacent to the tumour appears to have a deep haemorrhagic defect.  The uninvolved bowel mucosa is unremarkable.  Also received is a separatefragment of unremarkable colon 60mm in length and 65mm in circumference.  
Blocks: 1 - proximal margin; 2 to 4 - semi-detached polypoid fragment at distal end serially embedded; 5 - distal TS of tumour; 6 to 8 - tumour immediately below peritoneal reflection (paired sections); 9 to 11 - tumour above peritoneal reflection (paired sections); 12 & 13 - tumour above peritoneal reflection (paired sections); 14 & 15 - LS presumed distal margin; 16 - apical tissue; 17 & 18 - multiple lymph nodes below peritoneal reflection; 19 to 21 - one lymph node each block; 22 - multiple lymph nodes; 23 to 25 - pericolic fat.  Specimen photographs taken.   (TO: DX; YG/ta 3/10/65).  Re-select:  Blocks 26 to 29 - perirectal fat below peritoneal reflection; 30 to 34 - pericolic fat; 35 - further sectionof tumour.   (WB 6/10/65).
 

MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr E Dillehay):

SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR COLORECTAL CARCINOMA
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:  Rectum
Relation of tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection:	  Astride
Maximum tumour diameter:  45mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  9mm (macroscopic)
Tumour perforation:  No
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT3muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:  Proximal margin clear.  Interpretation of the distal margin isdifficult due to the fragmented nature of the specimen.  The semi-detached fragment of distal rectal wall contains diathermied carcinoma at one end, which is 5mm clear of the opposite end.  
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Below the peritoneal reflection, carcinoma with diathermy artifact is seen focally at the inked circumferential surface (A7), which is therefore interpreted as a positive margin.
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  0mm
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:	Seventeen (17)
Number of lymph nodes involved:	Nil (0)
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Extramural vascular invasion is present (A8, A11)
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Nil other
Residual tumour status
R1	Microscopic margin involvement
Response to neoadjuvant therapy
Not applicable
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary 
pT3  pN0  pMX  R1	(TNM 7th Edition)

Representative sectionsseen with Dr E Gillenwaters, who concurs.

DIAGNOSIS:
Rectum, ultra low Hartmann's resection:
	Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, pT3
	See text for margins
	Extramural vascular invasion present
	Seventeen negative lymph nodes (0/17)


