Episode No:  19Q315867J
1963158.QUJ

BADGET, Caleb 
Lab No:  19Q31586
El Dorado Beach Club
NAMBOUR  South Australia  6410
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  16/4/1996
Sex:  M
Collected: 12/09/2065 at 09:18
Location:  PaLMS-DONNYBROOK HOSPITAL
DR TOMEK GINGER DOLENCE
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (26.9.65):

CLINICAL:
Left retroperitoneal tumour ?phaeochromocytoma.  Adherent to left renal vein.  Right renal tumour - partial nephrectomy.  Diabetic.  IHD.  (R) Renal mass associated with large retroperitoneal ?sarcoma.  Partial nephrectomy.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "(L) Retroperitoneal mass, stitch renal vein margin" consists of a haemorrhagic lobulated mass, 130 x 95 x 90mm, weighing 520g.At one end of the mass there is a suture, indicating the renal vein margin (inkedblue).  The mass is thinly encapsulated with a small area of disruption near the renal vein margin.  The cut surfaces are diffusely haemorrhagic with scattered yellow areas.  There is a cystic space, 35mm diameter, within the mass.  On one surface of the mass there is a nodule 35 x 30 x 20mm.
Blocks: 1 to 4 - tumour with renal vein margin AE; 5 - tumour with ragged capsule; 6 to 9 - tumour with ?adrenal gland; 10 - cystic area within tumour; 11 to 13 - peripheral areas of tumour; 14 to 16 - central areas of tumour.  Specimen photograph taken. (TO: QO;UD/vo 12.9.65)  
B.  Specimen labelled "Renal tumour (right)" consists of a piece of grey membranous tissue, 70 x 60 x 5mm.  On one surface thereis attached adipose tissue, 60 x 35 x 25mm.  There is a haemorrhagic nodule arising from the surface opposite the fat.  The nodule is 29 x 25 x 20mm.  The cut surface of the tumour is yellow with admixed areas of haemorrhage.  The peripheral margin is inked black.  The tumour is 5mm clear of the margin.  The majority of the tumour is embedded in 6 blocks.  Specimen photograph taken.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Base of tumour (R) kidney" consists of two ragged fragments of kidney, 28 x 22 x 9mm and 22 x 10 x 10mm.  Each fragment shows a partially haemorrhagic area on one surface.  The haemorrhagic surface is inked blue and the opposite surface black.  
Blocks:  1 & 2 - larger fragment; 3 &4 - smaller fragment.  AE.  Specimen photograph taken.  (TO: MF:  IZ/mm 12.9.65) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr M Bensinger): 
A.  Sections show a pheochromocytoma.  This has a vague nested architecture with a prominent vascular network.  The tumour cells have medium sized and large, round or oval nuclei and a moderate amount of amphophilic cytoplasm.  Occasional cells have large, atypical hyperchromatic nuclei.  Mitoses are infrequent and there is no tumour necrosis.  No lymphovascular invasion is identified.  The tumour cells stain strongly positive for chromogranin andare also synaptophysin positive.  
Sections of the region of the described nodule on the tumour surface show tumour bulging into adjacent fat.  No definite residual adrenal cortical tissue is identified.  
Most of the tumour has a surrounding thin fibrous capsule.  The fibrous capsule is focally deficient in the area marked as renal vein margin and in this area the tumour abuts the inked excision margin (blocks A2, A4).  The tumour also abuts the inked excisionmargin in an area where the capsule was ragged; elsewhere the capsule appears intact.
Slides will be sent to REDCLIFFE HOSPITAL Hospital for SDHA and SDHB immunostaining; a supplementary report will be issued.
B.  Sections show a clear cell renal cell carcinoma, Fuhrman grade 2.    The tumour is mostly surrounded by a fibrous capsule, consistent with the renal capsule, and on one edge there is a small amount of uninvolved kidney.  No lymphovascular invasion is identified.  There is no tumour necrosis.  The excision margins are free of tumour.  
The Leibovich score is 0 (pT1a, pN0, tumour size <10cm, nuclear grade 2, no histologictumour necrosis).
C.  Sections show renal tissue including cortex and medulla.  No tumour is seen.  There is some mild benign nephrosclerosis.  The appearances are otherwise unremarkable.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left retroperitoneal mass:  Phaeochromocytoma.
B.  Right renal tumour:  Clear cell renal cell carcinoma, Fuhrman grade 2.
C.  Base of tumour right kidney:  Mild benign nephrosclerosis, no tumour.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (26.9.65):
A.  Slides weresent to EUDUNDA HOSPITAL Hospital for SDHA and SDHB immunostaining.
SDHB:  Positive.
SDHA:  Positive.
Comment:  The positive staining for SDHB is the normal pattern of staining which argues against SDHX mutation.
Reported by A/Prof M Toleston.

