Episode No:  89X529158A
8995291.NWA

HAZELBUSH, Teressa Samual 
Lab No:  89X52915
Barrow Green
LEETON  Australian Capital Territory  2351
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  19/5/2012
Sex:  M
Collected: 20/01/2066 at 16:47
Location:  HAPS
PRO GALA MALIK Flaugher
Distribution:     FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
Right colon, small bowel.  Colorectal cancer 09.
MACROSCOPIC:  
"COLON AND SMALL BOWEL CHEMOTHERAPY".  Specimen consists of two segments of bowel. The larger segment of bowel consists of terminal ileum with caecum. Thesesegments measures 400mm in length with the course of the terminal ileum being very distorted.  The circumference of the terminal ileum is up to 40mm.  The circumference of the caecum is up to 70mm.  There are multiple pale white nodular depositions seen on the serosa of the ileum measuring 1 up to 7mm in maximal extent.  There are no obvious lesions seen within on the mucosal surface of the bowel.  There is appendix measuring 130mm in length with diameter up to 4mm. There are also six lymph nodes identified measuring from 3 up to 6mm in maximal extent.  
(1 proximal surgical margin; 2 distal surgical margin; 3-5 appendix [3 distal appendix, 4 body of the appendix TS; 5 proximal appendix]; 6-12 RS through the specimen from proximal to distal with deposition of tumour on the serosal surface; 13 ?four lymph nodes; 14 ?one lymph node sectioned transversely; 15 ?one lymph node)
The smaller segment appears to be segment of the larger bowel. It measures 45mm in length with circumference up to 70mm.  The specimen is not orientated.  There are possible small depositions of tumour seen on the serosa as well.  
(16 LS of margin 1; 17 LS of margin 2; 18&19 RS of the possible deposition of tumour in the serosal surface of the bowel).  RS (M-19/UQ/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr W Goudreau)
Sections of the first described specimen show small and large bowel. There are numerous deposits of mucin associated with poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells on the serosal surfaces. This is associated with fibroblastic reaction and dense fibrosis. The mucosa of the small bowel is unremarkable. Mucosa of the large bowel showscrypt atrophy with reactive/regenerative epithelial changes and with small crypt abscesses. There is also melanosis. The appendix also shows mucosal reactive/regenerative changes. Two lymph nodes areidentified show reactive changes. Multiple deposits of poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells are seen in the mesenteric adipose tissue. EBV and CMV immunohistochemistry are negative.
The separate segment of large bowel also shows deposits of poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma of signet ring cells on the serosal surface. The mucosa shows cryptitis with reactive changes over the crypt and surface epithelium and with some crypt atrophy. The crypt architecture appears preserved. Negative for granulomas. 
Comment: There are features of poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells, and with diffuse active colitis pattern. Clinical and microbiologic correlation is recommended.
DIAGNOSIS:  
COLON AND SMALL BOWEL
- POORLY-DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA WITH SIGNET RING CELLS, DIFFUSE ACTIVE COLITIS. 
26/1/66 cy 

