Episode No:  75B957167L
750957.CQT

Yanik, Katrina 
Lab No:  75B95716,75B95716
Longdown
WILTON  Western Australia  6392
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  1/8/2001
Sex:  F
Collected: 21/01/2066 at 15:00
Location:  WILCANNIA HEALTH SERVICE
DR Ira Sulley
Distribution:  DR GALE, DR COLEMAN,    FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
* SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ATTACHED *

HISTORY:  
Clear cell ca corpus.
Uterus, tubes, ovaries.
Left pelvic nodes.
Right pelvic nodes.
Omental biopsy.
MACROSCOPIC:  
A.  "BILATERAL OVARIES + BILATERAL TUBE + UTERUS +CERVIX".  A uterus with attached cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries weighing 125g. The uterus has been previously opened along the lateral margin. Anterior cervical margin inked blue, posterior cervical margin inked black.  The uterusmeasures up to 60mm from medial to lateral, 90mm from fundus to cervix, and 40mm from anterior to posterior.  The attached cervix measures 35mm in diameter and is unremarkable.  The right fallopian tube measures 55mm in length and 7mmin diameter and includes fimbrial end. The right ovary measures 35x15x10mm.  The left fallopian tube measures up to 55mm in length and 7mm in diameter. The left ovary measures up to 25x15x7mm.  There are firm ? tubal ligation clips over each tube.  On sectioning the ovaries are unremarkable.  The endometrium shows a thickening and polypoid lesion at the fundus measuring 15mm in maximal extent extending into the right cornu.  On sectioning the area of thickening extends toa fibroid and are greater than two third the distance of the myometrium anteriorly. The total thickness is 18mm and the myometrium thickness is 23mm.  The fibroid measures 30mm in maximal extent.
(1 representative right LS and TS fallopian tube including fimbrial end; 2 representative right TS ovary; 3 representative LS and TS left fallopian tube including fimbrial end; 4 representative TS left ovary; 5-8 anterior cervix to fundus [notches inferior]; 9-11 posterior cervix to fundus [notches inferior]; 12-14 further endometrium myometrium posterior fundus; 15&16 paired anterior fundus with area of thickening extending to fibroid; 17&18 further RS of fibroid; 19 right parametrial tissue; 20 left parametrial tissue).  RS (M-20) 
Further tissue (all endometrium is embedded: 21-33 right side[ 21-23 anterior LS continuous slides {21 cervix, 22 thickened area ? lesion at cervix, 23 endometrial cavity}; 24&25 each 1 LS thickened area at cervix; 26 LS remnant anterior endometrial cavity; 27-33 each 1 TS posterior endometrial cavity from inferior to superior]; 34-48 Left side [ 34&35 Continuous LS anterior cervix and isthmus; 36-43 anterior endometrialcavity each 1 TS from inferior to superior; 44-48 posterior endometrial cavity each 1 TS from inferior to superior] RS (M-48/ZH)
B.  "RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE".  Multiple pieces of fatty tissue, measuring in aggregate 20x20x20mm.  There is an irregular node measuring 10mm in maximal extent and a possible smaller node 6mm.
(1 larger node; 2 smaller node with fat).  AE (M-2)
C.  "LEFT PELVIC NODE".  Multiple pieces of fatty tissue, measuring in aggregate 20x20x20mm.  There are eight possible nodes identified (some fragments may be part of same node).
(1 four possible nodes; 2 four possible nodes).  RS (M-2)
D.  "OMENTAL BIOPSY".  A piece of omentum measuring up to 60x40x10mm.  No suspicious areas are identified on inspectional sectioning.
(1&2 representative tissue).  RS (M-2/PL/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr P Tunnicliff)
A. Sections of cervix show Nabothian cysts.  In the isthmus there is an infiltrating poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. The tumour has a length of 15mm (macroscopic) and invades the stroma to a depth of 7mm. Carcinoma involves adjacent endocervical glands. There is focal lymphatic permeation. Tumour is 5mm from the closest parametrial soft tissue margin.  Myometrial thicknessat this site is 12mm.
Sections of the endometrial cavity show an endometrial polyp. Most of the polyp shows changes of simple hyperplasia. On the surface, there is complex proliferation of atypical glands with clear cell change. The endometrium at the edge of the polyp shows highly atypical glands with serous differentiation.  Further sections show a focus of high grade serous adenocarcinoma invading the myometrium to a depth of 3mm.  Myometrium is thickendedwith multiple leiomyoma and adenomyosis. invasion. 
Both left and right fallopian tubes and both ovaries appear unremarkable.  
B. No evidence of malignancy is seen in four lymph nodes identified.
C. Five lymph nodes are identified showing no evidence of metastatic tumour.  However, there are three loose fragments showing infiltrating adenocarcinoma.  Uninvolved normal appearing endometrioid glands are identified in some fragments.  The adenocarcinoma shows predominantly high grade serous adenocarcinoma (>50%) with a component of high grade endometrioid adenocarinoma.  These fragments are most likely representing tissue from endometrial or endocervical cavityrather than metastatic focus within the lymph node.
Immunohistochemistry stains were performed on multiple blocks from the loose tumour fragments, isthmus tumour and endometrial cavity.  The results are similar.
Positive:  p53, p16 (variable, strongly positive in endometrium and loose tumour fragments), CEA (focal), cytokeratin CAM5.2, cytokeratin 7. 
Negative:   WT1, Oestrogen and progesterone receptors, cytokeratin 20, bcl2, vimentin.
D. Sections show fibrofatty tissue. No evidence of malignancy.
Comment:   In summary, the carcinoma is poorly differentiated, predominantly high gradeserous adenocarcinoma with a small endometrioid component.  Carcinoma involves isthmus and endometrium.  The endometrial polyp shows focal atypical complex hyperplasia with clear cell change.  There is focal lymphatic space involvement but all the nodes are negative.
ENDOMETRIAL CARCINOMA: 
Tumour type:  High grade serous adenocarcinoma (>50%) with a small endometrioid component
Myometrial invasion:  Present
Depth of myometrial invasion:   7mm
Myometrial thickness:   12mm
Focality:   Multifocal
Tumour involves:  Endometrium and isthmus
Vascular/lymphatic invasion:   Present
Involvement of cervix:  Present, in endocervical glands 
Involvement of uterine serosa:  Not seen
Excision margins:  Appears clear
Non-tumour uterus:  
Adjacent endometrium:  Focal atypical complex hyperplasia with clear call change. Myometrium shows multiple leiomyomas. 
Polyps:  Present
Adenomyosis:  Present
Adnexae:  fallopian tube:  Not involved
Right fallopian tube:  Not involved
Left ovary:  Not involved
Right ovary:  Not involved
Lymph nodes:  
Nodes involved:  0number:  9

Pathologic Staging (AJCC/UICC TNM 7, FIGO 2008):   FIGO stage II
DIAGNOSIS:  
A. BILATERAL OVARIES, BILATERAL TUBE, UTERUS AND CERVIX
- PREDOMINANTLY HIGH GRADE SEROUS ADENOCARCINOMA WITH SMALL ENDOMETRIOID COMPONENT INVOLVING ISTHMUS, ENDOMETRIUM AND ENDOCERVICAL GLANDS.
B. RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
- NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY IN FOUR NODES.
C. LEFT PELVIC NODE
-LOOSE FRAGMENTS OF  INFILTRATING ADENOCARCINOMA
-NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY IN FIVE NODES.
D. OMENTAL BIOPSY
- NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY.
27/1/66 cy 
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (2/6/66):
Supplementary report: 
Immunostains for MSI proteins (Baxter International SEALSCentral; block: A25)
MLH1: Positive 
PMS2: Positive
MSH2: Positive
MSH6: Positive
Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme. 
Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype. 
The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible. 
2/6/66 cy
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
The slides were reviewed following Clinical pathology meeting.  There is tumour involvement of the cervical stroma by direct extension from the isthmus             (FIGO stage II).

