Episode No:  77X427282N
778427.FXH

BENDIT, CHAUNCEY LOREEN 
Lab No:  77X42728,77X42728
North Summit
NARRANDERA  Queensland  4115
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  8/4/2002
Sex:  F
Collected: 4/4/2066 at :
Location:  St Vincent's Pathology - OBERON MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
DR Marcelino JEFFEREY TEPPERBERG
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
G1 EAC on HDC.  Endometrial cancer.  Right pelvic brim peritoneal nodule for frozen section. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right pelvic brim peritoneal nodule", consists of a tan nodule 10mm across. Half embedded for frozen section.  Block - FS deblocked; 2 - rest of tissue, AE.
FROZEN SECTION:  Adenocarcinoma, favour endometrioid.
Result to Dr S Mans by Dr S Caminos/Dr S Kittinger at 2:55pm on 04.04.66.  
 
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, both tubes and ovaries", consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 93gin total.  The uterus measures 70 x 48 x 35mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 35 x 30mm and has a haemorrhagic but otherwise unremarkable surface.  On sectioning there is a haemorrhagic soft tumour withinthe anterior wall of the uterus; this measures 12 x 12mm.  It is 48mm from the cervical os and at least 30mm from the uterine cornua.  The tumour appears to invade into the inner half of the myometrium only.  The endometrium also has apolyp on the posterior wall of the lower uterine segment; this measures 15 x 5mm and is 30mm from the cervical os.  Otherwise the endometrium is 2mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 50mm in maximum thickness.  Within the myometrium there is one fibroid 8mm in maximum dimension.  The myometrium is otherwise unremarkable.  The right fallopian tube measures 50 x 7 x 5mm and the right ovary measures 30x 15 x 8mm.  The ovary has an unremarkable cut surface.  The left fallopian tube measures 40 x 6 x 6mm.  The left ovary is indistinct and there is a multinodular left adnexal mass measuring 50 x 25 x 20mm.  Part of the mass appears to have a peritoneal surface.  The cut surface shows necrotic yellow inspissated material filling a cystic space as well as a firm nodule of tan and slightly calcified tissue measuring 10 x 10 x 10mm.  Normal ovarian parenchyma is not readilyidentified. The fimbrial end of the left fallopian tube is also not identified.  
Block 1-3 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 4- further section of tumour with area of deepest invasion (85% of tumour AE); 5-7 - full LS of posterior body and cervix; 8 - fallopian tube fimbrial end; 9 - 2TS fallopian tube and right paradnexal soft tissue; 10 - right ovary; 11, 12 & 13, 14-16 - left adnexal mass including possible fallopian tube and possible ovary (approximately 70% of the adnexal mass embedded). 
 
C.  Specimen labelled "Omental biopsy", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 180 x 70 x 15mm.  No nodules or mass lesions are identified on sectioning.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.  (TO:  NH/ec  4.5.66)
 


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr S Kesley):
A. Sections show fibrofat with a deposit of metastatic grade two endometroid adenocarcinoma.  It is uncertain whether this is metastatic from the endometrium or from the left ovary.  See comment below.
B.  Sections of the cervix are unremarkable.  Sections of the described haemorrhagic areain the anterior uterine wall show haemorrhage and necrosis of the superficial myometrium, consistent with the effects of a recent curette; adjacent to this there is some grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  The described polyp in the posterior lower segment is also involved by grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  There is superficial myometrial invasion.  Maximum depth of myometrial invasion is 5mm out of a total myometrial thickness of 16mm.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen and there is no cervical involvcement.  A leiomyomais confirmed in the myometrium and there is also adenomyosis in the myometrium.  The myometrium is otherwise unremarkable.  
Sections of the fallopian tubes are unremarkable.  
Sections of the described left adnexal mass show a deposit of grade two endometrioid adenocarcinoma in the ovary.  No tumour is seen on the surface of the ovary.  Adjacent to the tumour deposit there is a cystic area showing features of old haemorrhage and necrosis; the nature of this is uncertain.  No tumour is seen.  No endometriosis is identified but it is possibly an area of ole endometriosis.  
A section of the right ovary is unremarkable. 
Immunostains for mismatch repair enzymes have been performed on the endometrial tumour.:  Preserved nuclear staining.
PMS2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6:   Preserved nuclear staining.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI).
C.  Sections show unremarkable fat.  No tumour is seen.  
Comment:  There is grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma involving the endometrium, left ovary and right pelvicbrim peritoneum.  The three tumours have a similar histologic appearance and the relationship between them is uncertain.  The endometrial tumour is superficially invasive with no LVI and the ovarian tumour is right within the ovary with no surface involvement.  The endometrial and ovarian tumours are favoured to be separate primaries but this is not definite.  The right pelvic brim tumour isconsidered to be metastatic but it is uncertain whether it is from the endometrium or the left ovary.  The presence of superficial myometrial invasion and no LVI in the endometrial tumour would somewhat favour it being from the left ovary.  The cystic area with old haemorrhage adjacent to the left ovarian tumour may be old endometriosis but no definite endometriosis is identified in this cyst or elsewhere in the specimens.
Representative sections have also been viewed by Dr S Streat. 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Right pelvic brim peritoneal nodule:  Endometroid adenocarcinoma, see comment.
B.  Uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes:  
1.  Grade 2 endometroid adenocarcinoma of endometrium showing superficial myometrial invasion.  
2.  Grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma in left ovary, see comment.
3.  Old haemorrhagic cyst left ovary, possible old endometriosis.
4.  Leiomyoma and adenomyosis.  
C.  Omental biopsy:  No tumour.  
  

