
Episode No:  72B299899M
720299.VZZ

NEMETS, FREDERICH 
Lab No:  72B29989,72B29989
Vicente
EVANDALE    2059
Specimen: Fluid,Tissue
D.O.B:  26/4/2016
Sex:  F
Collected: 21/02/2066 at 10:53
Location:  MACQUARIEWARD-PARABURDOO HOSPITAL
DR Stephen TROY Tress
Distribution:  NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (19.4.66):

CLINICAL:
Large pelvic mass.  CA 125 = 3800.  Ascites. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right ovary for frozen section", consists of acollapsed cystic ovarian mass 110 x 105 x 30mm with attached fallopian tube measuring 100mm in length.  The outer surface of the cyst is smooth apart from occasional small (less than 10mm) cysts.  No papillary excrescences are seen.  Theinner lining is yellow and "plaque-like" with a resemblance of fibrous trabeculae.  A small portion of possible ovary is seen at one edge.  The wall is 10-15mm thick.  No papillary structures are identified on the inner lining.  Two representative sections for F/S of thickest areas of cyst wall.  Block 1 - FS 1; 2 - FS 2; 3 - fimbrial end of tube; 4 - representative tube; 5-13 - further representative cyst wall. 
FROZEN SECTION:  High grade carcinoma, favour high grade serous carcinoma (psammoma bodies, growth pattern). 
Result to Dr Abel by A/Prof T Harmann at 11:30am on 21.02.66. 
B.   Specimen labelled "Left ovary and tube", consists of a solid and cystic mass 120 x 90 x 50mm plus a separate fragment of solid yellow tissue 60 x 55 x 25mm.  A length of tube is identified measuring 30mm in length with a maximum external of 10mm, embedded within the tumour.The fimbrial end of the tube is unable to be identified macroscopically.  The cut sections reveal solid, yellow and necrotic areas of tumour associated with yellow fluid, some of which has a jelly-like consistency.  No mucoid material is seen.  Three frozen sections taken (two from main mass and third from separate fragment). 
Block - FS 1; 2 - FS 2; 3 - FS 3; 4-11 - representative main tumour; 12 & 13 - representative tube; 14 & 15- representative smaller fragment of separate tissue. 
FROZEN SECTION:  High grade serous carcinoma with necrosis and psammoma bodies.  
Result to Dr Smokey by (A/Prof T Shauger) at 12:00pm on 21.02.66. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Uterus and cervix", consists of a uterus with attached cervix weighing 115g when fixed.  The uterus measures 80 x 50 x 45mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface with small areas of attached haemorrhage.  There is a large polypoid firm area bulging out from the posterior serosa, measuring 30mm in main diameter.  The ectocervix measures 30 x 30mm and is unremarkable.  There is a length of vaginal cuff attached which anteirorly measures 40 x15mm and posteriorly measures 45 x 25mm.  On sectioning the endometrium is 1mm in thickness and the myometrium measures 22mm in thickness.  The myometrium contains fibroids; the largest is posterior and subserosal and measures 30mm in maximum dimension.  All the fibroids appear whorled and unremarkable.  Blocks 1-4 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 5-8 - full LS of posterior body and cervix; 9 - subserosal fibroid. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Omentum bx", consists of an irregular piece of fatty tissue measuring 290 x 150 x 15mm. No suspicious areas are identified.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.  
E.   Specimen labelled "Ovarian pedicle", consists of apiece of tan and fatty tissue measuring 25 x 15 x 5mm.  AE 1 block. 
F.   Specimen labelled "Right distal ureter", consists of a length of ureter measuring 45mm in length with a maximum external diameter of 6mm.  The cut surface is unremarkable.  Block 1 -2TS shave of ends; 2 - random TS. 
G.  Specimen labelled "Sigmoid and distal donut", consists of a length of large bowel which was received opened and measures 55mm in length.  The mucosa isunremarkable.  The cut surface reveals a large cream necrotic mass centred in the mesentery and measuring 48mm in maximum dimension.  This abuts the serosal surface and pushes towards the bowel wall but does not appear to invade into themuscularis propria.  Several unremarkable lymph nodes are identified in the mesenteric fat.  Also icluded with the specimen is a donut of large intestinal wall measuring 25 x 20mm; this is unremarkable. 
Block 1 - mucosal resection margins; 2 & 3- full face of tumour; 4 - further aspect of tumour at serosal aspect; 5 - lymph nodes; 6 - donut; 7 - reserve block.  
(TO:  HY/ec   23.2.66)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr T Slife)
A.  Sections show ovary with a high grade, poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  This mainly consists of sheets of cells with large, high pleomorphic nuclei and avariable amount of eosinophilic cytoplasm.  Some psammoma bodies are noted.  There are foci of tumour on the serosal surface of the ovary, with associated organising fibrin.  There is also focal extension of tumour into adherent fibrofat.  Sections of the fallopian tube show tumour on the serosal surface.  There are also occasional small foci of tumour adherent to the fimbrial end of the tube.  No carcinoma in situ of residual fimbrial tubal epithelium is seen.   
B.  Sections show ovary with a poorly differentiated, high grade serous carcinoma.  There is extensive tumour necrosis.  There are some papillary structures and there is some gland formation.  Psammoma bodies are noted.  There is tumour present on the serosalsurface of the ovary focally.  Sections of the fallopian tube away from the mass show some tumour on the serosal surface but the tube itself is unremarkable.  Sections of the described smaller piece of tissue show fibrofat with involvementby serous carcinoma.  
C.  Sections of the cervix show foci of metastatic serous carcinoma on the serosa of the posterior cervix and also within the superficial stroma of the endocervix (block C7)..  The cervix is otherwise unremarkable.
Sectionsof the endometrium show features of exogenous hormone effect. There is focal metastatic serous carcinoma within the endometrium of the lower uterine segment (block C7).  
Leiomyomas are confirmed in the myometrium.  Focal metastatic serous carcinoma is also identified within a small vessel in the superficial myometrium of the lower segment (block C3).
D.  Sections show congested and haemorrhagic fat with some surface mesothelial proliferation.  No tumour is identified.  
E.  Sections show fat with small and medium sized muscular blood vessels.  No tumour is seen.  
F.  Sections show ureter.  The lining epithelium is unremarkable.  No tumour is seen. 
G.  Sections confirm a deposit ofhigh grade, poorly differentiated serous carcinoma in subserosalfibrofat.  There is extensive necrosis.  Tumour extends to the serosal surface focally.  There is no involvement of the muscularis propria, submucosa or mucosa.  Sections of the two end margins show normal large intestinal wall.  Sections of three mesenteric lymph nodes show no tumour involvement.  
Sections of the separate donut show unremarkable large intestinalwall. 

DIAGNOSIS: 
A.  Right ovary and tube:  Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma of ovary with metastases on serosa of fallopian tube and focally involving fimbrial end of tube.
B.  Left ovary and tube:  Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.
C.  Uterus:  
1.  Foci of metastatic serous carcinoma on posterior cervical serosa and in endocervical stroma, lower segment endometrium and superficial lower segment myometrium.
2.  Leiomyomas.  
D.  Biopsy omentum:  No tumour.
E.  Ovarian pedicle:  No tumour.
F.  Right distal ureter:  No tumour.
G.  Sigmoid colon and distal donut:  Serous carcinoma in subserosal tissue.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (19.4.66):
A.  Stains for mismatch repair enzymes have been performed as requested.
MLH1:   Preserved nuclear staining.
PMS2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6:   Preserved nuclear staining.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI).

