Episode No:  94L382022V
94438202.GVY

Daughton, EARNEST 
Lab No:  94L38202,94L38202
Brookings
SINGLETON  Western Australia  7330
Specimen: Fluid,Tissue
D.O.B:  24/11/2011
Sex:  F
Collected:03/04/2066 at 16:42
Location:  ACT - BOWRAL HOSPITAL
DR ISAIAS Sopko
Distribution:  DR Gramacy, DR Tllo, DR Wilber,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Ovarian cancer.  Hysterectomy.  Smoker.  Previous ETOH abuse.  Spinal fusion.
Please send copies of pathology to Dr SIA Perches, MITCHELL HOSPITAL Hospital Southern PO Box 1013 IRON KNOB 2870 and to Dr Walter (CULBURRA GP).


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right tube and ovary" consistsof an ovarian mass 60 x 60 x 48mm, with attached fallopian tube 70 x 5 x 5mm.  The outer surface of the ovarian mass is haemorrhagic and predominantly smooth with roughened areas adjacent to the fallopian tube.  On sectioning the mass ispredominantly solid with a soft cream cut surface and areas of haemorrhage.  Representative sections.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - fallopian tube; 3 to 9 - representative ovarian mass.
B.  Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary" consists of a haemorrhagic mass measuring 70 x 60 x 50mm.  No fallopian tube is identified macroscopically.  The cut surface shows a soft, solid appearance with areas of haemorrhage.  There is a central more gelatinous area.  Representative sections.
Blocks:  1 to 6 - representative adnexal mass.
C.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue 390 x 110 x 90mm.There are four nodules of firm tumour within the fat, ranging from 5 to 25mm in maximum dimension.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.
D.  Specimen labelled "Left groin node" consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 65 x 30 x 25 and 30 x 15 x 10mm.  There is a lymph node present in each piece.  The larger lymph node appears to be replaced by tumour and this spreads into the surrounding fat.  Representative section.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representative replaced lymph node; 3 - one lymph node bisected.
E.  Specimen labelled "Right groin node" consists of two lymph nodes measuring 8 and 40mm in maximum dimension.  The larger lymph node appears to be replaced by tumour.  Representative section.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representative largest lymph node; 3 - smallest lymph node bisected.
F.  Specimen labelled "Umbilicus" consists of an ellipse of skin including umbilicus, measuring 50 x 25mm to a depth of 55mm.  There is a scar on the skin, 10mm long.  The deep aspect is inked black.  On sectioning there are round nodules within the subcutaneous tissue of the umbilicus.  The nodules range from 5 to 8mm in maximum dimension.  Firm nodular tumour extends abuts the deep surgical margin.  Representative section in 4 blocks (block 2 and 3 paired blocks, full face through skin to deep cut surface).
G.  Specimen labelled "Appendix epiploica" consists of a polypoid piece of fibrofatty tissue 7 x 5 x 5mm.  The outer surface is haemorrhagic.  BAE 1 block.
H.  Specimen labelled "Pouch of Douglas peritoneum" consists of a thin membranous piece of tissue, 55 x 30 x 10mm.  One surface is smooth with nodular areas of haemorrhage and the opposite has fibrofatty tissue.  The deep surfaceis inked black.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.  (TO: GT; SX/rt 6.3.66)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr I Lairmore):
A.  Sections of the ovary show extensive involvement by apoorly differentiated high grade serous carcinoma.  Some psammoma bodies are present and there are thin papillae and some slit-like glands.  There is patchy necrosis.  Some mucinous differentiation is also noted.  Tumour involves the fimbrial end of the fallopian tube but no carcinoma in situ of residual tubal epithelium is identified.  Sections of the fallopian elsewhere show some detached tumour cells with psammoma bodies in the tube lumen but the tube is otherwise unremarkable.  Tumour involves the peritoneal surface of adjacent adnexal soft tissue.  
With immunostains the tumour cells stain positive for cytokeratin 7, PAX-8 and CA-125, and are also generally positive for p53.  A cytokeratin 20 stain is negative.
Mucinous differentiation is very unusual but the tumour is still considered to be best classified as a high grade serous carcinoma.
Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr I Armagost.   
B.  Sections show ovary and adjacent fallopian tube.  The ovary is extensively involved by poorly differentiated high grade serous carcinoma similar to specimen A.  Some mucinous differentiation is identified and there is patchy tumour necrosis.  Tumour also involves the fimbrial end of the fallopian tube and involves the serosa of thetube.  No carcinoma in situ of residual tubal epithelium is seen.  
  
C.  Sections of omentum show involvement by poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  
D.  Sections of the larger node show extensive involvement by metastatic high grade serous carcinoma.  There is no definite extranodal spread.  Sections of the smaller node show no involvement by tumour.  
E.  Sections of the larger node show extensive involvement by a metastatic high grade serous carcinoma.  There is prominent tumour necrosis.  No extranodal spread is seen.  Sections of the smaller node show noinvolvement by tumour.  
F.  Sections show skin and subcutis with a small amount of underlying skeletal muscle and deeper soft tissue.  There is possibly peritoneum on the deep aspect of the specimen.  There are deposits of high grade serous carcinoma within the dermis and subcutis and extending focally to the deep excision margin of the specimen.    
G.  Sections show mesothelium with underlying fibrofat.  There is involvement by highgrade serous carcinoma.
H.  Sections show mesothelium with underlying fibrous tissue and fat.  On the mesothelial surface and invading into underlying tissue there are patchy deposits of high grade serous carcinoma. 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Right ovary and fallopian tube:  Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma. 
B.  Left ovary and tube:  Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma. 
C.  Omentum:  Serous carcinoma.  
D.  Left groin nodes:  Metastatic serous carcinoma in one node (1/2). 
E.  Right groin nodes:  Metastatic serous carcinoma in one node (1/2).   
F.  Umbilicus:  Serous carcinoma.  
G.  Appendix epiploica:  Serous carcinoma.  
H.  Pouch of Douglas peritoneum:  Serous carcinoma.    



