Episode No:  57F776071A
571776.CSE

GERFIN, BRENDAN Malia 
Lab No:  57F77607
Mulgray
BURNIE  SA  2794
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  25/3/1985
Sex:  M
Collected: 04/03/2066 at 10:09
Location:  ST GEORGE PRIVATE-KOOWEERUP REGIONAL HEALTH SERVICE
DR COLUMBUS Chatmon
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Whipple.  BPPV, HTN.  Pancreatico-duodenectomy. (Whipples).   Retro-pancreactic lymph node + omentum.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Whipple" consists of a pancreatico-duodenectomy including proximal pancreas (50 x 60 x 48mm), distal stomach (40mm L x 92mm C), duodenum (280mm L x 80mm C), gallbladder (87mm L x 47mm D), cystic duct (30mm L x 5mm D), extrahepatic common bile duct (10mm L x 5mm D), and distal common hepatic duct (2mm L x 3mm D).  The ampulla of Vater (5mm D) is not dilated or expressing mucin.  The duodenal and gastric mucosa appears unremarkable.  The pancreatic neck margin (19 x 9mm) is inked blue, the pancreatic portal vein margin (37 x 11mm) is inked black, the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) margin (47 x 22mm) and uncinated process (28 x 27mm) are inked green, the posterior pancreatic surface is inked orange, and the anterior pancreatic surface is inked red.  There is an incised defect (15 x 9mm) within the SMA margin which is also inked red.  There is a small amount of adipose tissue attached to the anterior surface of the pancreas measuring up to 50mm in width.  The pancreas is sectioned from superior to inferior into seven approximately equal slices (5 to 9mm thickness each).  There is a firm pale grey solid tumour, 50 x 43 x 37mm, with a focal cystic area, 9mm in maximumdimension. The tumour appears to extend to the pancreatic neck margin, portal vein margin, SMA margin, and uncinated process margin. The tumour abuts the posterior and anterior pancreatic surfaces.  There are patchy areas of uninvolved pancreatic tissue around the tumour.  The gallbladder contains green mucinous fluid; there are no gallstones.  The wall is 1mm thick and the mucosa has dark green appearance with scattered yellow dots (consistent with cholesterolosis).  
Blocks: 1 - LS gastric margin; 2 - LS duodenal margin; 3 - TS shave (2mm) hepatic duct margin; 4 - TS gallbladder neck/cystic duct; 5 - TS gallbladder body; 6 - LS gallbladder fundus; 7 - LS representative duodenum; 8 - single anterior peripancreatic neck lymph node; 9 - single anterior pancreatic lymph node, sectioned; 10 - TS shave (2mm) pancreatic neck margin; 11 - TS proximal cystic duct; 12 - TSdistal cystic duct; 13 - TS common bile duct; 14 - further LS gastric margin; 15 - slice 1 pancreas (superior); 16 - slice 2 (includes pancreatic duct); 17 - slice 3 (includes intrahepatic common bile duct and ampulla); 18 - slice 4; 19 - slice5; 20 - slice 6; 21 - slice 7 (inferior) (TO: CP; MD/ta/ec 4/4/66); 22 to 25 - adipose tissue, ?lymph nodes.  Please refer to photo/block diagram.  (TO: ZU; IH/rt 4.10.66)
B.  Specimen labelled "Lower pancreatic head lymph node" consists of fibroadipose tissue measuring 20 x 19 x 4mm, containing a single lymph node.  
Block 1 - single lymph node; 2 - associated fibroadipose tissue. AE.. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists ofomental tissue measuring 150 x 120 x 4mm.  No lymph nodes or masses are identified.  RS 5 blocks.  (TO: CB; DD/ta/ec 4/4/66)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Y Corne): 
A.  The entire pancreas is embedded and examined.  Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma located within the head and uncinate process of the pancreas.  The 50mm tumour (gross dimension) appears is composed of small tubular as well as complex glandular structures within a desmoplastic fibroinflammatory stroma.  There is multiple associated foci of perineural invasion both within and the advancing edge of tumour and several foci of venous invasion. A vessels at the superior mesenteric artery margin is also involved. The tumour replaces much of the pancreatic duct and focally invades the peripancratic soft tissue posteriorly but does not involve the ampulla or duodenum.  The tumour is solid with large confluent areas of pseudocystic change due to confluent areas of tumour necrosis.  No  features to suggest origin from an intraduct papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) are identified.  There is marked peritumoral pancreatic exocrine atrophy and inflammation, including lymphoid aggregates.  One of nineteen lymph nodes is very focally involvedby direct invasion. The involved lymph node is located along the posterior border of the pancreas The tumour  extends to the superior mesenteric artery/ periuncinate margin across a broad front.  The superior mesenteric vein/portal veinmargin is also focally involved.  The pancreatic neck margin is well clear.  The gallbladder shows very mild chronic cholecystitis. A synoptic report for pancreatic cancer follows.  
B  One lymph node shows reactive changes only (0/1).  There is no evidence of malignancy.  
C.  Sections show mature adipose tissue.  There is no evidence of malignancy.   
SUMMARY PANCREATIC TUMOUR 
Histological tumour type
Ductal adenocarcinoma, NOS
Histological grade
Grade 2: Moderately differentiated (50% to 95% of tumour composed of glands) 

Microscopic tumour sites 
Head of pancreas:  Involved
Uncinate process:  Involved
Ampulla of Vater:  Not involved
Duodenum:  Not involved
Other (specify)

Extent of tumour invasion 
The tumour firmly extends into peripancreatic soft tissue posteriorly  but does not involve the ampulla, duodenum or extrapancreatic biliary tree.  The tumour involves the superior mesenteric artery and portal vein margins.  No enbloc vascular wall of the main superior mesenteric artery is present for assessment  of invasion, however a small vessel at the superior mesenteric artery margin (? tributary) is involved (Block A18)..  The omentum (Specimen C) is uninvolved.

Maximumtumour diameter
50mm (gross estimate).
Lymphovascular invasion 
Present - medium sized vessel (block A19, A20, A18)
Type of vessel
Vein (block A16, A19)

Perineural invasion 
Present, multiple foci
Perineural invasion of the superior mesenteric artery (uncinate) margin neural plexus
Present (Block A16)
Pre-invasive lesion 
Present  Pan IN 3, about 3mm clear of pancreatic neck margin (Block A15) 
Margins:
Pancreatic neck: 8.5mm (BlockA16 & A10)
Common hepatic  duct:  Well clear (Block A3)
Portal vein/superior mesenteric vein): Involved focally  (Block A16)
Periuncinate soft tissue (superior mesenteric artery): Involved across a broad front. (Blocks A17, A18, A19)
Surfaces: 
Anterior: Approximately 9.5mm
Posterior: 1.7mm (A17)
Lymph nodes:
Number identified: 11 (5 posterior pancreatic, 12 anterior pancreatic , 1 inferior pancreatic and 1 lower pancreatic head (specimen B)).
Number involved:  1 very focal by direct invasion (A18).

Other pathologies: 
Marked peritumoural pancreatitis and exocrine atrophy.
The duodenum is unremarkable.  The stomach is unremarkable.  No Helicobacter are seen.  The gallbladder shows cholesterolosis and very mild chronic cholecystitis.
PATHOLOGICAL STAGING (AJCC 7th Ed.)

PANCREAS
Primary tumour category (pT)
T3 Tumour extends beyond the pancreas(block A18, A20) but without histological involvement of the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery 

Regional lymph node category (pN)
N1 Regional lymph node metastasis focal involvement by direct invasion (A18)
Distant metastasis category (pM) 
MX Not assessable by histology

DIAGNOSIS:
A -C.  Pancreaticoduodenectomy, lower pancreatichead lymph node and omentum:
- 50mm moderately differentiated pancreatic adenocarcinoma, grade 2, invades peripancreatic soft tissue , one of nineteen lymph nodes focally involved (1/19) (by direct invasion), positive  periuncinate/superior mesenteric margin and portal vein margins, perineural invasion present, lymphovascular invasion present, stage  pT3,pN1,pMX ( AJCC 7th edition, 2010). 

