
 269611.WNI
Rohloff, Cristine H
26X61185

Last edited : 5/5/2066		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Right colon cancer.  Caecal cancer. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy",consists of a segment of bowel comprising of terminal ileum, caecum and ascending colon.  The terminal ileum measures 110mm in length and the mucosa is unremarkable.  The caecum and ascending colon measure 180mm in total length and the attached pericolonic and peri-ileal fatty tissue are up to 90mm in width.  The base of the mesentery/pericolonic fatty tissue is inked blue.  The vermiform appendix is not identified.  There is a circumferential tumour at the proximal ascending colon measuring 75 x 70 x 30mm.  The tumour has almost completely occluded the lumen of the colon.  The tumour is 75mm from distal and 150mm from proximal margins.  The tumour is solid with friable surfaces.  The tumour extends into the pericolonic fatty tissue to a depth of 60mm and comes close (1-2mm) to the peritoneal surface.  There appears to be prominent necrosis within the tumour.  Block 1- shave distal margin; 2 - shave proximal margin; 3-8 - one continuous slice extending from mucosa to the peritoneal surface the pericolonic fatty tissue (please see the diagram); 9 - tumour close to the peritoneal surface; 10 - tumour  (reserve block); 11 - tumour and adjacent mucosa (MSI stains requested); 12 - tumour and serosa; 13 - apical lymph node; 14 - lymph nodes as seen; 15 - lymph nodes as seen; 16 - lymph nodes as seen. (HK/ec   28.4.66)  
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr H Bookmiller)
Synoptic Report for Large Bowel Carcinoma
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:  Ascending colon
Maximum tumour diameter:  75mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  75mm
Tumour perforation:  No
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Poor
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:  Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not applicable
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  Not applicable
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:	15
Number of lymph nodes involved:	1
pN1a	Metastases in 1 regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Present (Extramural)
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pM0	No distant metastasis
Background abnormalities/other comments
The appendix is not identified.
	The involved lymph node is the apical lymph node.

