Episode No:  90M783027Y
904783.BGT

FRABIZZIO, RONNIE IVORY 
Lab No:  90M78302
Lee Green
ARARAT  VIC  4471
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  17/6/2008
Sex:  M
Collected: 04/06/2066 at 19:55
Location:  WEST GYNAECOLOGY-PORTLAND TABULAM HEALTH CENTRE
PRO ETTIE Elliott Niven
Distribution:     FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
Peritonectomy specimen.  CRC.  Liver met.  Pelvic mets with ureter + vas x 2.
MACROSCOPIC:  
A.  "LIVER - SEGMENT 7 (SEVEN)".  A piece of liver measuring up to 50x40x25mm.  Margin inked blue.  Capsular surface is unremarkable.  On sectioning there is a pale tumour present which is well circumscribed and measures up to 10x8x7mm.  It is located 1mm from the inked resection margin.
(1 tumour; 2 uninvolved parenchyma; 3 tumour reserve block).  RS (M-3)
B.  "GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, ILEOCOLIC RESECTION, RECTUM".  
Gallbladder - A gallbladder measuring 65mm in length and 25mm in diameter. It is open at the neck. There is no cystic duct lymph node identified. The external surface is smooth and shiny.  On opening there are no gallstones present in the lumen.  The mucosa is green and velvety.  
(1 TS resection margin; 2 TS body; 3 LS fundus).
Omentum - Omentum measuring up to 510x210x15mm.  There are no tumour deposits identified on sectioning.
(4-6 firmer areas RS)
Ileocolic anastomosis - An ileocolic anastomosis measuring 120mm in length, including 60mm of small bowel and 60mm of colon. The external surface shows some rough areas ? adhesions.  No definite serosal tumour deposit identified macroscopically.  On opening the anastomosis is well healed and the mucosa is unremarkable.  
(7 LS resection margin; 8 serosal ? adhesions; 9 representative anastomosis)
A portion of rectosigmoidcolon measuring 210mm in length and up to 45mm in diameter.  It measures 85mm in open circumference at the distal resection margin.  There is a tumour located at and below the anterior peritoneal reflection which appears to extend to theradial soft tissue resection margin (inked red).  The serosal surface is otherwise unremarkable.  There are numerous clipped tubular structures (? Ureter ? vessels) located within the tumour mass.  
(10 proximal LS resectionmargin; 11 distal LS resection margin; 12 TS proximal ?ureter ? vas margins; 13 distal ? ureter ? vas margins; 14-16 tumour deposits [14 at resection margin, 15 with mucosa, 16 with ? vas ? ureter]; 17 five possible nodes; 18 five possible nodes; 19&20 perirectal fat with possible nodes; 21 tumour reserve block).  RS (M-21/BR/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr Y Yatsko)
A.  The sections show liver in which there is moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with cribiform pattern, central necrosis and fibroblastic stromal reaction. Carcinoma is 0.5mm from the inkedmargin. The adjacent liver parenchyma shows moderately severe macrovesicular steatosis. 
B.  The sections of the gallbladder show smooth muscle hyperplasia and Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses. The cystic duct lymph node is unremarkable. 
The sections of the omentum show patchy subserosal inflammatory infiltrate. Negative for tumour. 
Sections of the specimen with ileocolic anastomosis show focal serosal adhesions. The remaining sections of the specimen including the resection margins are unremarkable. 
Sections of the segment of rectosigmoid colon show moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma within the perirectal adipose tissue. There is prominent lymphatic and vascular space invasion and prominent perineural invasion within the adipose tissue. Tumour is 0.5mm from the inked radial soft tissue margin and perineural carcinoma is less than 1mm from the inked radial margin. The carcinoma infiltrates into the muscularis propria of the bowel wallbut does not involve the mucosa. The proximal and distal resection margins are unremarkable. In addition the vas deferens and a portion of the ureter are identified in the adipose tissue adjacent to the rectosigmoid colon. The mucosa and wall of the ureter is unremarkable. The wall of the vas deferens is involved by adenocarcinoma. Five small lymph nodes are seen in the mesenteric/perirectal adipose tissues and these show reactive changes. 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  LIVER SEGMENT VII - ADENOCARCINOMA. 
B.  GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, ILEOCOLIC RESECTION AND RECTUM -
 - ADENOCARCINOMA TEXT FOR DETAILS. 
4/12/2066 ht

