
Episode No:  85N123285E
8551232.WOE

Umholtz, Tania 
Lab No:  85N12328
Water Oak Point
EUROA  NT  6029
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  28/11/1998
Sex:  M
Collected: 04/07/2066 at 15:48
Location:  MACQUARIEWARD-EAST WIMMERA HEALTH SERVICE - WYCHEPROOF
DR Ross Jed Weisgerber
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (5.10.66)

CLINICAL:
Whipple + omentum specimen for ?PDAC.  1x long prolene PV bed.  2x long prolene SMA.  1x long silk common bile duct.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Whipples" consists of a length of bowel measuring 260mm witha diameter of 50mm from distal stomach to duodenum.  The proximal margin has been stapled to a thickness of 7mm and inked blue.  The distal margin has been stapled to a thicknessof 5mm and inked black.  The pancreas is attached to the specimen measuring 50 x 30 x 70mm, with orientating sutures attached.  The gallbladder is attached measuring 110 x 35 x 25mm.  The portal vein bed is marked with one long prolenesuture and is inked blue.  The SMA bed marked with two prolene sutures and is inked red, the uncinate process is inked green, and the anterior surface is inked yellow.  Posterior pancreatic surface is inked black.  The serosal surfaceof the gallbladder appears smooth and shiny.  Gallbladder wall thickness is <1mm.  The mucosal surface of the gallbladder is green and velvety with no macroscopically visible polyps or gallstones within the lumen.  The extra hepatic common bile duct measures 17 x 5mm.  On sectioning within the pancreas is a tumour measuring 20 x 15 x 10mm macroscopically.  The tumour is adjacent to the portal vein margin and the peri pancreatic fat appears to be contain an involved lymph node in slices three and four.  There is omentum separate inside the specimen container measuring 460 x 120 x 12mm.  Please refer to the attached block diagram.

Blocks:  1 - LS distal duodenal margin; 2 - LS proximal pyloric margin; 3 - TS shaved cystic duct; 4 - two TS body gallbladder; 5 - LS gallbladder fundus; 6 - pancreatic neck shaved margin; 7 - hepatic duct shaved margin; 8 - lymph node; 9 - lymph nodes; 10 - bisected lymph node; 11 to 18 - slice one to eight superior to inferior; 19 - omental lymph node; 20 & 21 - omental lymph nodes.
B.  Specimen labelled "Station 9 lymph node" consists of fibrofatty tissue measuring 10 x 5 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.  (TO: LC; UE/rt 4.10.66)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof W Tyus):
SUMMARY PANCREATIC TUMOUR 
Histological tumour type
Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. The carcinoma has an unusual growth pattern characterised by rounded nodules of tumour displaying poorly formed glandular openings. Focal intracytoplasmic and luminal staining is seen in the diastase stain.
The tumour cells show the following immunohistochemical profile: 
Keratin 19 - positive
Keratin 7 - weak/moderate staining
Keratin 20 and CDX2 - Negative
CD56, Chromogranin A, Synaptophysin - Negative
Insulin, glucagon - Negative
KI67 - Variable, up to 20%
PSA and PSMA - Negative
Although the nested growth pattern raises the possibility of neuroendocrine differentiation, there is no evidence of this in the immunohistochemical profile.
Similarly a diagnosis of acinar cell carcinoma was also considered, given the growth pattern, however the presence of staining with keratin 7 and 19 would argue against this diagnosis.
The overall features would favour a diagnosis of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. 
Histological grade
Grade 3: Poorly differentiated (49% or less of tumour composed of glands)

Microscopic tumour sites 
Head of pancreas 
Neck of pancreas (see margin description)

Extent of tumour invasion 
Pancreas
Peripancreatic soft tissues - extensive microscopicdeposits in peripancreatic adipose tissue.

Maximum tumour diameter 
20 x 15 x 10mm macroscopically 
Greatest microscopic measurement = approximately 23mm.
Lymphovascular invasion 
Present - extensive within pancreas and also extending into peripancreatic tissues. 
Type of vessel
Small and medium sized vessels within and adjacent to pancreas 

Perineural invasion 
Present and extensive - including a focus within the section of the pancreatic neck margin.
Perineural invasion of the superior mesenteric artery (uncinate) margin neural plexus
Suspicious: A focus of perineural invasion is seen close to the junction between the blue portal veinbed and red SMA bed margins. (A6)
Pre-invasive lesion 
Not identified
Margins:
Pancreatic neck: The shave of the pancreatic neck margin contains a focus of perineural invasion as well as an involved lymph node containing metastatic carcinoma. Foci of intraparenchymal carcinoma are also seen in this section.
The involved lymph node is present on the diathermied surface of this section and red marking ink and diathermy artefact are present directly on carcinoma. (A6). The positive margin is marked red, indicating the SMA bed (in the region of the neck),
Common bile duct: Clear of tumour
Portal vein (superior mesenteric vein): Tumour is present at the blue inked portal vein bed margin. (A12)
Superior mesenteric artery: Carcinoma within adipose tissue is present at the red inked, superior mesenteric artery bed (A6) in the section taken from the pancreatic neck (see above)soft tissue: Positive - carcinoma within adipose tissue extends to the green inked, uncinate margin (A13 and A14)
Surfaces: 
Anterior: Appears free of tumour
Posterior: Carcinoma within peripancreatic adipose tissue extends to the black inked posterior surface.
Lymph nodes:
Number found: 20
Number involved: 9
Several of the involved nodes show extranodal extension.
The station 9 lymph node in specimen B is free of tumour (0/1)
Total nodal count (specimens A and B) = 9/21
Other pathologies:
The sections of gallbladder show no significant change.
The omental fat showsno evidence of malignancy in the submitted sections.
PATHOLOGICAL STAGING (AJCC 7th Ed.)

PANCREAS
Primary tumour category (pT)
T3 Tumour extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement of the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery
Lymph node status (pN)
N1 Regional lymph node metastasis
Distant metastasis category (pM) 
MX Not assessable by histology
DIAGNOSIS: 
PANCREAS: ADENOCARCINOMA WITH VASCULAR AND NEURAL INVASION
LYMPH NODE METASTASES PRESENT
MARGINS - SEE ABOVE
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (5.10.66)

HISTOPATHOLOGY FOR REVIEW


Outside Reference Number: 85N12328
Biopsy No:  WNN12J2851

BARWON HEALTH - NEWCOMB RENAL UNIT CAMPUS Hospital 
Pathology DICKINSON 3 NORTH
Reported by Prof W Stores

MACROSCOPIC:
The slides from the pancreatic resection (REF: 85N12328) were reviewed at the request of Associate Professor EUGENIO ISIMINGER (Pathologist, Bank of New York Company Pathology, PINNAROO SOLDIERS' MEMORIAL HOSPITAL Hospital) and the treating oncologist.
Received are one paraffin block, two H&E stained slides (including one giant slide), 12 immunohistochemically stained slides and one diPAS slide.
MICROSCOPIC: 5/6/66 
Dear Maxwell,
Thank you for the opportunity to see the slides from this case and to perform immunohistochemistry. I am very confident that this tumour is a PANCREATIC ACINAR CELL carcinoma.
lmmunohistochemistry confirms the diagnosis of pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma and isfollows:
BCL10 - positive
Trypsin - positive
COMMENT:
We have found BCL10 to more sensitive and specific for pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma and it is reassuring that both markers are positive in this case. In our hands chromogranin shows focal weak staining (which is acceptable in pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma). Similarly, thereare a few small foci in which beta-catenin membrane staining is lost, but without classic nuclear positivity. In our experience this is also a common finding in pancreatic acinar cell carcinomas and is of no clinical significance (it merely illustratesthe close relationship between acinar cell carcinoma and pancreatoblastoma).
SUMMARY:
Pancreas - Pancreatic Acinar Cell Carcinoma. 
Sw/AG
NOTE: A copy of this supplementary report has been faxed to Dr W Kibler on 5/10/2066.

