Episode No:  01G311999R
0123119.YZR

TRADUP, ZORAIDA Jemima 
Lab No:  01G31199
Flurry
LEETON  New South Wales  2529
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  1/12/2006
Sex:  F
Collected: 12/04/2066 at 11:00
Location:  ACT Genetic-PINNAROO SOLDIERS' MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
PRO Debroah UWE Swantek
Distribution:     FILE-COPY,NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
Supplementary report 22/4/2066 MMRP and other Immunostains
HISTORY:  
Left colon tumour ? adenocarcinoma vs pseudomyxoma peritonei.  Peritonectomy.  
Appendix, omentum, spleen, gallbladder, left colon, bilateral ovaries, hilar lymph node. eMR: left mid descending colon tumour
MACROSCOPIC:  
A.  "OMENTUM, APPENDIX, BILATERAL OVARIES, SPLEEN, RIGHT DIAPHRAGM, COLON".  
Appendix - An appendix separate in specimen container measuring up to 50mm in length and 7mm in diameter. There is mesoappendix attached along the length extending out 15mm. The external surface is unremarkable. The proximal margin is not stapled or sutured.  Appendix all embedded.   (1 two LS distal; 2 two TS mid; 3 two LS proximal)
Spleen - A spleen weighing 170g and measuring up to 110x75x75mm.  There is an irregulararea of haemorrhagic capsular surface measuring 60mm in maximal extent. The capsule appears deficient in this area.  There are no mucinous deposits identified around the surface.  On sectioning the spleen is unremarkable.
(4 representative spleen with deficient capsular area)
Gallbladder - A gallbladder measuring 110mm in length and 35mm in diameter. The external surface is smooth and shiny. There is a cystic duct node present measuring 12mm in maximal extent.  There are no suspicious areas on the surface.  On opening the lumen is filled with file and some sludge black material.  No stones identified.  
(5 TS resection margin; 6 node bisected; 7 TS body; 8 LS fundus)
Umbilicus - An unorientated skin excision measuring 50x35mm with subcutaneous tissue to a depth of 45mm.  The skin surface is unremarkable.  Margin inked blue. Section shows fibrous tissue with no tumour seen.  (9-11 one full face from skinsurface to deep margin)
Omentum - Omentum measuring 500x170x20mm.  A mucinous tumour deposit is noted on the surface measuring 10mm.  A splenunculus is noted measuring 12x7x7mm.  A smaller gelatinous tumour deposit is noted measuring 5mm.
(12 splenunculus; 13 mucinous tumour deposits)
Peritoneum - Multiple fragments of peritoneum with attached fatty tissue and also separate mucinous pieces of tissue, measuring in aggregate 90x80x70mm.  On the peritoneal surfaces there are multiple firm areas of tumour, the largest measuring 20mm in maximal extent.  (14&15 sections of separate mucinous tissue; 16-19 peritoneal tumour deposits [19 ? lymph node])
Colon - An anterior resection measuring 280mm in length and 40mm in diameter. The distal resection margin is entirely above the anterior peritoneal reflection. Mesocolon 70 mm wide is attached. On this surface located 60mm from the distal resection marginthere is mucinous tumour deposit on the serosal surface covering an area of 60mm.  On the left side there is peritoneum with some haemorrhagic areas and attached ovary and fallopian tube.  The tube measures 70mm in length and 8mm in external diameter and the ovary has an attached collapsed cystic structure measuring 25mm diameter, and measures up to 45x15x10mm.  On opening the colon there is a stent present with length 90mm and 35mm diameter.  On removal there is a circumferential sessile tumour with necrotic surface measuring 70mm in open circumference and occupying a length of 40mm of the colon.  It is located 65mm from the distal resection margin and 170mm from the proximal resection margin.  Proximal to the tumour there is an area of ulceration in proximity to the edge of the stent and distal to the tumour there is an area of pseudopolyps where the stent is focally adherent to the mucosa measuring 35mm.  Distal resection margin inked blue and proximal resection margin inked black. (20&21 LS resection margins; 22 representative LS fimbrial end and TS tube; 23 representative TS ovary including collapsed cyst; 24-27 tumour through to mucinous serosal deposit; 28 ulcerated area at proximal edge of mesh stent; 29&30 distal area of pseudopolyp; 31 area of adherent tumour and peritoneum; 32 five nodes, 33 five nodes, 34 four nodes [one cluster of nodes]; 35 six nodes).  
Separate ovary andtube - A fallopian tube measuring 70mm in length and 7mm in external diameter. There is a small paraffin filled cyst measuring 5mm diameter on stalk measuring 15mm and 1mm diameter.  The separate ovary has mucinous tumour on the surfaceand measures 30x20x15mm.  On sectioning the ovary has a pale irregular area ? tumour and a clear filled cystic space measuring 10mm in maximal extent.  (36 LS and TS representative tube + attached cyst; 37 representative ovary).  RS (M-37)
B.  "LIVER CYST".  A piece of liver measuring 25x30x10mm, and weighing 3g.  On the capsular surface there is a thin walled cystic nodule 12mm in diameter.  Margin inked blue.  On sectioning the cyst has a smooth wall.  No cyst contents are noted.  
(1-3 TS [3 TS ends]).  AE (6-3)
C.  "LIVER SEGMENT III".  A small piece of liver with capsular surface on one side measuring 12x10x6mm.  Margin inked blue.  Specimen is trisected showing a small cystic space measuring up 7x2x2mm.  AE (3-1)
D.  "PORTACAVAL LYMPH NODE".  Two irregular nodes, the smaller measuring 15x10x4mm, the larger measuring 22x15x7mm.  On sectioning both nodes there is no definite tumour seen. (1 one smaller node trisected; 2 larger node TS).  AE (M-2/CF/ank)
MACROSCOPIC FINDINGS SUMMARY
Operation type:  
Specimen length:  280mm
Tumour site:  descending colon
Tumour size:  70 mm
Distance from margins:  
Proximal:  170mm
Distal:  65mm
Radial:  N/A
Perforation: Present
Peritoneal reflection:  Tumour entirely above
Tumour description:  Circumferential sessile tumour extending through muscularis propria.
Overlying serosa: Mucinous tumour on surface
MICROSCOPIC:
The mucinous carcinoma of colon has a variable appearance and has areas of abundant extracellular mucin and other less mucinous areas. The metastatic mucinous depositsof tumour in peritoneum and omentum show variable but focally high cellularity, and show definite invasive growth,  and there are some areas of nonmucinous conventional invasive adenocarcinoma.  In some areas there is single cell invasionpresent.  
SYNOPTIC REPORT COLORECTAL CANCERRESECTION:
A. LEFT COLON TUMOUR:
Tumour type: Mucinous adenocarcinoma
Differentiation by predominant area: Moderately differentiated (grade pending MMRP Immunostains)
Tumour extension: Tumour penetrates to surface of visceral peritoneum
Maximum distance beyond muscularis propria: 30 mm
MARGINS: 
Longitudinal margin: Not involved
Distance of tumour to nearer longitudinal margin: >10 mm 
Circumferential margin: Not involved
Distance of tumour to circumferential margin: >10 mm 
Lymph nodes: 
Positive for metastasis
Number of involved lymph nodes: 6
Total number oflymph nodes: 21
Lymphatic invasion: Not identified
Venous invasion: Not identified
Perineural invasion: Not identified
Histologic distant metastases: Present, omentum, peritoneum, one ovary, one fallopian tube.
Polyp adjacent to carcinoma: focus of probable villous adenoma present in one section.
Pre-operative therapy given: Not known
Separate abnormalities:
No colon polyps.
Stent ulceration present.
Other organs:
Appendix - small focus of mucinous carcinoma involves peritoneal surface.
Gallbladder - mucosal sinus is present.  Benign lymph node present.
Umbilicus - granulating port tract present.
Omentum - metastases present.
Peritoneum - metastases present.
Splenunculus - present.
Spleen proper - unremarkable
Attached ovary (? Left) - Cystic mucinous tumour present within ovary, in the clinical context consistent with metastatic colonic mucinous adenocarcinoma with a borderline mucinous ovarian tumour appearance.
Attached fallopian tube (?left) - Surface involvement by metastatic  adenocarcinoma.  Tubal fimbrialepithelium is partly colonised colonic adenocarcinoma epithelium.  
Other separate ovary (?right) - Simple cyst of ovary.  There is a focus of surface peritoneal involvement by metastatic adenocarcinoma.
Other fallopian tube separate (? right) - no significant abnormality.
B.  Sections showa simple cyst of liver.
C.  Sections show a small simple cyst of liver.
D.  The lymph node shows reactive changes.
ANCILLARY TESTS: 
Mismatch repair (MMR) enzymes Immunostains:  Pending
Stage:  pT4a pN2 pM1b (AJCC 7th ed 2010)
DIAGNOSIS:
A-D.  EXCISION SEGMENT OF COLON, OMENTUM, BOTH TUBES AND OVARIES, SPLEEN, RIGHT DIAPHRAGM, GALLBLADDER, UMBILICUS -invasive moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma of colon extending to peritoneal surface;  No signet ring cells seen.
- metastasis to omentum, peritoneum, appendix serosa, both ovaries and one tube. 
- mesocolic lymph node metastases present (6 lymphnodes positive).
- MMRP and other Immunostains pending. 
- Carcinoma grade pending MMRP status.

B.  LIVER CYST - simple cyst.
C.  LIVER SEGMENT 3 - simple cyst.
D.  PORTACAVAL LYMPH NODE - no tumour.

B. Thammavongsa (9113 3412) 14/4/2066 ank
- - - -
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 22/4/2066
Immunostains: 
Mismatch repair proteins (MMRP), block A26:
MLH1: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
PMS2: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
MSH2: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
MSH6: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
Comment:  
Mismatch repair proficient tumour. 
Mucinous carcinomas with with stable microsatellite status as suggested by normal MMRP staining above tend to have a poorer prognosis than mucinous carcinoma with microsatellite instability (MSI-H) which behave as low-grade tumours. The current tumour is classified as: 
Moderately differentiated mucinous carcinoma, high grade.

Other Immunostains were as expected (CDX2+ CK20+ WT1- Pax8- Ck7+focal p53+) and not contributory.

