 5418722.DPG
Leamy, Caleb
54D87221

Last edited : 17/5/2066		Page: 2
AMENDED REPORT (17/5/66)

CLINICAL:
For CABG + MVR today.  Pre-op CT showed thymic mass.  Excised atoperation.  
NB:  Specimen received fresh, imprints done, portion sent for flow. 

MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Thymic tumour", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue 70 x 60 x 30mm.  The outer surface is inked black.  On sectioning through the fat there is a well circumscribed partially lobulated solid tumour.  The tumour has a fleshy pink cut surface but no areas of haemorrhage or necrosis identified macroscopically. The tumour appears to focally abut the surgical margin on one side.  The surrounding fibrofatty tissue is unremarkable.  Representative sections.  Block 1 & 2, 3 & 4, 5 & 6 - full face through tumour (approximately 70% of tumour AE, block 6 for biobank).
(TO: IW/ec  17.4.63) 


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr N Poro and Dr N Stanczak):
Sections show a biphasic nodular tumour within mature adipose tissue. The tumour has an epithelial and lymphoid component. The epithelial component has epithelioid cells in solid nests and thick cords. The cells have eosinophilic cytoplasm, with oval nuclei and coarse chromatin. There are areas of clear cell change, as well areas with a more spindled cellular architecture. The tumour has thick fibrous septae present, both within and surrounding the tumour. The lymphoid component surrounds the nests of epithelial cells, and is composed of a mixedpopulation of lymphocytes. There are occasional dendritic cells present, however there are no germinal centres. There are no areas of necrosis. Mitotic activity is low. The Ki67 proliferation index is <5% in epithelioid areas. There is scant residual atrophic thymic tissue present adjacent to the tumour.
Microscopic invasion by tumour into fat is focally present, in keeping with Masaoka-Koga Stage IIa (pT2)
Circumscribed tumour is present at  < 0.1mm from the surgical margin.
Immunohistochemistry:
The lymphoid component is composed of nodules of mature CD20 positive B cells, as well as CD3 positive T cells. The epithelial component is positive for CK5/6, and CK19. There are no scattered single epithelial cells within the lymphoid component. 
The features are of a micronodular thymoma with lymphoid stroma.
DIAGNOSIS:
Thymic tumour:  
- 70mm micronodular thymoma with lymphoidstroma
- Masaoka-Koga Stage IIa (pT2)
AMENDED REPORT (17/5/66)
The size of the lesion was reviewed on request by Dr Agustin GOSSON, JOYCE PALMER HEALTH SERVICE Hospital. CT Scan showed a 3cm lesion.
AMENDED MACROSCOPIC:
The size of lesion on review was 28mm x27mm x 22mm. This was omitted from the original macroscopic description.
AMENDED DIAGNOSIS:
Thymic tumour:  
- 28mm micronodular thymoma with lymphoid stroma
- Masaoka-Koga Stage IIa (pT2)

