Episode No:  86M074022C
864074.AGG

Liggins, ELDEN 
Lab No:  86M07402,86M07402
Valley Oak
YANCHEP  Tasmania  5154
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  10/6/1978
Sex:  F
Collected: 18/03/2066 at 09:19
Location:  DONNYBROOK HOSPITAL
DR DARRELL CARUANA
Distribution:  DR Kenny,    FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
?Carcinosarcoma, uterus. Uterus, tubes and ovaries, left pelvic lymph node, right pelvic lymph node. 
MACROSCOPIC:  
A. 'UTERUS, OVARIES AND TUBES'. A disrupted uterus with bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries and cervix weighing 135g total. The uterus measures up to 65mm from medial to lateral, 80mm from fundus to cervix and 60mm from anterior to posterior. The specimen has been previously opened along one lateral edge and there is necrotic appearing tumour protruding from the posterior serosal surface which is disrupted (inked red). Separate in the specimen container are somenecrotic piece of presumed tumour measuring in aggregate 25x25x20mm. The right fallopian tube measures up to 65mm in length and 7mm in external diameter with multiple benign appearing cysts along the length. The right ovary measures upto 20x15x8mm. The left fallopian tube measures up to 50mm in length and 7mm in external diameter with similar small benign appearing cysts along the length and a larger parafimbrial cyst with thin walls measuring 20mm in maximum diameter. The left ovary measures up to 20x15x8mm.  There are multiple fibroids noted in the uterine wall. Anterior cervical margin inked blue and posterior cervical margin inked black.  On sectioning the tumour has a variable firm focally haemorrhagic and overall necrotic appearance. It has a maximum dimension of 60mm. On sectioning the ovaries are unremarkable. (1 representative LS and TS right tube including fimbrial end; 2 representative TS right ovary; 3 representativeLS and TS left tube including fimbrial end; 4 representative TS left ovary; 5-9 anterior cervix to fundus as per diagram [8 in detail for further processing]; 10-14 posterior cervix to fundus as per diagram; 15 further tumour and representative fibroid; 16 separate necrotic pieces of tumour; 17 right parametrial tissue; 18 left parametrial tissue; 19&20 tumour reserve block). RS (M-20). Further: The tumour invades 25 mm into anterior myometrium of total wall thickness 30mm. 21,22 one slice from anterior endometrial cavity tumour through to serosa. 23 similar. 24,25 R posterior fundus tumour and firm slightly orange area; LV
B. 'RIGHT PELVIC NODE'. Multiple pieces of fatty tissue measuring inaggregate 15x15x15mm. There is a possible lymph node measuring 10mm in maximum extent. 
(1 possible node; 2 remaining tissue). AE (M-2).
C. 'LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE'. Multiple pieces of fatty tissue measuring  in aggregate10x10x10mm including on possible node 10mm in maximum extent. 
(1 possible node sectioned; 2 remaining tissue). AE (M-2/RP/ht).
MICROSCOPIC:  
A.
The carcinoma of endometrium is high grade and has variable patterns. There are some areas of grade 3 endometrioid adenocarcinoma with focal gland formation, but much of the tumour is solid and relatively undifferentiated. These areas are variable appearance. Some cells have clear cytoplasm and rounded nuclei with a rhabdoid appearance but myogenic differentiation is not identified and there are no other areas of carcinosarcoma change identified. In several areas of the tumour the cells are arranged in solid sheets of cells with hyperchromatic highly atypical nuclei and there are areas with a high mitotic rate approximately 100 mitoses per 10/hpf and extensive tumour necrosis.  The carcinoma is classified as grade 3 endometroid with a high mitotic rate. Undifferentiated carcinoma and solid pattern serous carcinoma are in the differential and could be similar.
ENDOMETRIAL CANCER SYNOPTIC REPORT:
Tumour site: Fundus, Body
Maximum tumour dimension: About 60 mm
Histologic tumour type and grade: Endometrioid adenocarcinoma grade 3, with a relatively undifferentiated high grade carcinoma pattern and high mitotic index.
Myometrial invasion: Present
Percentage of myometrium invaded by carcinoma: 80 %
Depth of invasion: 23 mm (slide A21,22)
Myometrial thickness: 29 mm
Lymphovascular invasion: Multiple foci of lymphatic invasion present.
Sites of lymphovascular invasion: At tumour interface
Cervical stromal invasion: Not identified
Uterine serosa: Not involved
Parametria: Not involved
Background endometrium: Atrophic
Other organ comments: 
Right fallopian tube: No significant abnormality
Right ovary:  No significant abnormality
Left fallopian tube: No significant abnormality
Left ovary:  No significant abnormality
Ectocervix: No significant abnormality; atrophic
Endocervix: No significant abnormality
Uterine leiomyomas are present.
Ancillary studies:
Immunostains. block A14, A9
The tumour shows strong 3+ positive staining for p16 and p53, with weak to moderate ER staining. These areas of tumour with rounded cells show weak staining with keratin AE1/AE3 and negative staining for SMActin, desmin and myogen. Neurofilament show nonspecific staining of uncertain significance.
Mismatch repair proteins (MMRP), block A14:
MLH1: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
PMS2: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
MSH2: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
MSH6: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
FIGO stage: 1B
B.  Sections show fibrofatty connective tissue. 
One lymph node is present, negative for tumour. 
C.  All tissue processed. 
Six lymph nodes are present, negative for tumour. 
(The peritoneal washings cytology are positive. See separate report).
DIAGNOSIS:
A-C. UTERUS, TUBES AND OVARIES WITH RIGHT AND LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES: 
- Invasive endometrial adenocarcinoma grade 3 with relatively relativelyundifferentiated (high grade) carcinoma pattern and high mitotic rate. 
- Carcinoma invades through much of the myometrium thickness. 
- Lymphovascular invasion present. 
- R,L Pelvic nodes negative.
X Heidenescher 24/3/2066

