
Episode No:  30H200224R
302200.GGM

CUTRI, DECLAN 
Lab No:  30H20022,30H20022
Arley
MILDURA  ACT  4570
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  3/4/1982
Sex:  F
Collected: 27/04/2066 at 15:44
Location:  BROADMEADOWS HEALTH SERVICE
DR Marcelo Sarra
Distribution:  DR Jonathon,    FILE-COPY, Dr. FREDERICH,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
*SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ATTACHED*

HISTORY:  
GII endometrial focal clear cell ca. Uterus, tubes and ovaries. Omental biopsy, hernia sac, right pelvic lymph nodes, left pelvic lymph nodes. 
MACROSCOPIC:  
A.  "UTERUS, TUBES AND OVARIES". A total hysterectomy specimen with attached adnexa and cervix with a total weight of 152g. The uterus is already opened coronally by the surgeon. It measures 85mm superior to inferior, 60mm medial to lateral, 44mm anterior to posterior. The attached cervix measures 30x30x25mm. The right fallopian tube measures 55x6mm, the left fallopian tube measures 65x7mm, the right ovary measures30x15x10mm and the left ovary measures 17x13x10mm. The anterior margin inked blue, posterior inked black. There is a polypoid exophytic tumour occupying the body and fundus area anteriorly and posteriorly. It consists of multiple polypoids fronds and measures 35mm superior to inferior, 25mm medial to lateral and it's protruding into the cavity 10mm anteriorly and 15mm posteriorly. It appears to be confined to the body with no involvement of the cornu. It is located 40mm of the external os approaching the lower uterine segment but no definite involvement of the cervix is identified. The ectocervix and endocervical canal mucosa is unremarkable. No involvement of the parametrium is identified. The tumour invades about 7mm out of 23mm more markedly posteriorly, (tumour invasion/myometrium thickness). One well demarcated white whorled nodule measuring 20mm in maximum extent is noted in the anterior myometrium (submucosal fibroid). The cut surface of the right tube reveals areas of adhesion with cystic spaces filled with serous like material in the right fimbrial end. The cut surface of the right tube was unremarkable. The cut surface of the left tube is unremarkable. The cut surface of the left ovary reveals firm white areas in the adjacent subserosal tissue. 
(1 right fimbrial tube serially sliced; 2&3 each right ovary and one TS tube; 4 right parametrium; 5 left tube fimbrial end bisected; 6&7 each left ovary with one TS of tube; 8 left parametrial tissue; 9-12 continuous pieces LS anterior uterus [9 cervix; 10 isthmus; 11 body; 12 fundus]; 13&14 continuous piece body and fundus anteriorly; 15 maximum area of invasion anterior uterus; 16 anterior fibroid; 17-21 continuous piece LS posterior uterus [17 cervix; 18 isthmus; 19 body; 20&21 continuous piece fundus]; 22 maximum invasion of body; 23&24 maximum invasion of fundus; 25&26 continuous pieceexophytic tumour at posterior body). RS (M-26/MY/ht).
B. "OMENTUM". A fibrofatty piece of tissue measuring  190x120x20mm in aggregate. The outer surface is glistening and smooth with focal areas of haemorrhage. The cut surface is unremarkable. No definite nodules are identified.
(1-4 RS omentum). RS (M-4).
C. "HERNIA SAC". A fibrofatty piece of tissue measuring  65x45x15mm in aggregate and has a fibrous smooth glistening surface (?collapsed sac) with underlying fatty tissue. Focal ragged and fibrous are identified. No definite nodules are seen. RS (M-3).
D. "RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE". Multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue measuring 50x45x15mmin aggregate. Ten possible lymph nodes identified, largest measuring 22mm with dark brown cut surface. 
(1 larger lymph node, five TS; 2 second largest lymph node (16mm); 3 one lymph node four TS; 4-6 each one lymph node trisected; 7 four lymph nodes). RS (M-7).
E. "LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE". A fibrofatty piece of tissue 40x30x15mm. Two lymph nodes identified, the largest measuring 24x15x10mm. The smaller measures 12x7x5mm. 
(1&2 larger lymph node; 3 smaller lymph node trisected). RS (M-3).
MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr J Rickey)
A. Sections of uterus show an invasive and exophytic tumour involving the body and fundus both anteriorly and posteriorly. The tumour has a papillary, cribriform and glandular architecture and in some areas show solid sheets of tumour cells. Areas of prominent clear cell change are seen focally, particularly in the exophytic component. The tumour shows predominantly punched out glandular architecture, with little convincing serrated glandular profile. On the surface of the exophytic component, there are few small foci of papillary architecture, where the papillary structures are covered by tumour cells which showing hob nailing appearance. Throughout the tumour the nuclear grade is high. In the glandular areas, the nuclei show pseudostratification. Nuclei show moderate variation of nuclear size and shape, and prominent nucleoli. Immunohistochemical stains on the uterine tumour (Block A23) shows that the Ki67 stain has a high percentage nuclear positivity (at least80%). WT1 is diffusely negative, and p53 shows weak to moderate staining in a  patchy distribution. P16 shows focal positivity. Classification of this tumour is difficult, as the morphology is that of a high-grade carcinoma with predominantly endometrioid features, but with focal areas of clear cell differentiation, and some focal areas which are suggestive of serous differentiation. This case has been subject to intradepartmental consultation, and the overall featuresfavour Grade 3 endometrioid carcinoma, with focal clear cell carcinoma differentiation. 
Carcinoma invades approximately 7mm through a 27mm uterine wall. Tumour extends focally into the endometrium of the lower uterine segmentanteriorly, but no invasion is seen in this area. It also focally replaces the posterior endocervical epithelium, but again, no stromal invasion is seen. Sections from the posterior isthmus show intramucosal carcinoma with no convincinginvasion. 
In the fimbrial end of the right fallopian tube (Block A1), there is a small focus of highly atypical surface epithelium, with a similar appearance to that of the uterine tumour. A few irregular glands lined by similar epithelium are present in the immediately subjacent fallopian tube stroma. The appearance of this tiny focus raises a differential diagnosis of a tiny focus of right fallopian tube metastatic disease, versus a possible tiny focus of primary tubal serous carcinoma. Immunohistochemical stains to assist in making this differentiation are in progress, with a supplementary report to follow. Sections of the left fallopian tube are unremarkable. Sections of right and leftovary show changes consistent with age. Sections of the right and left parametrial tissue are unremarkable.
ENDOMETRIAL CARCINOMA: 
Tumour type:  Favour grade 3 endometrioid adenocarcinoma with a minor clear cell carcinoma component (please see text)
FIGO grade:  3 
(architecture grade:  2-3, nuclear grade:3)
Myometrial invasion:  Invasion limited to inner half of myometrium
Depth of myometrial invasion:   7mm
Myometrial thickness:   27mm
Focality:  Unifocal
Tumour involves:  Fundus and body with focal extension into the endometrium of lower uterine segment
Vascular/lymphatic invasion:Possible focal, adjacent to the invasive component
Involvement of cervix: no stromal involvement 
Involvement of uterine serosa:  Not involved
Excision margins:  Clear of tumour
Non-tumour uterus:  
Adjacent endometrium:  Atrophic
Polyps: Not identified 
Adenomyosis:  Not identified
Adnexae:  
Left fallopian tube:  Not involved
Right fallopian tube:  One tiny tumour deposit within the fallopian tube mucosa, raising a differential diagnosis of tubalmetastasis versus a tiny focus of primary tubal serous carcinoma.  Immunohistochemical stains in progress, with a supplementary report to follow
Left ovary:  Not involved
Right ovary:  Not involved
Lymph nodes:  
Nodes involved:  0
Total number:  (Specimens D & E): 12
Other tissues:  
Omentum - Not involved
Hernial sac - Not involved
 
Pathologic Staging (AJCC/UICC TNM 7, FIGO 2008): deferred (see text)

B.  Sections of the omentum show no involvement.
C.  Sections of the hernia sac show no involvement.  
D.  Ten lymph nodes identified show mild reactive changes only.
E.  The two lymph nodes show mild reactive changes only
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  UTERUS, TUBES AND OVARIES :
-HIGH GRADE CARCINOMA, FAVOUR GRADE 3 ENDOMETRIOID CARCINOMA WITH FOCAL CLEAR CELL CARCINOMA COMPONENT.  IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINS ON A TINY DEPOSIT WITHIN THE RIGHT FALLOPIAN TUBE ARE IN PROGRESS, WITH A SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT TO FOLLOW. (PLEASE SEE TEXT)
B.  OMENTUM :
-NO INVOLVEMENT SEEN.
C.  HERNIA SAC :
-NO INVOLVEMENT SEEN.
D.  RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODES :
-THE TEN LYMPH NODES SHOW REACTIVE CHANGES ONLY.
E.  LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODES :
-THE TWO LYMPH NODES SHOW REACTIVECHANGES ONLY.
3/5/66 ank
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (9/5/66):

Supplementary report:
Immunostains for MSI proteins (Time Warner NARROGIN HOSPITAL Lab; block:)
MLH1: Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei.
PMS2: Positive(normal) staining of tumour nuclei.
MSH2: Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei.
MSH6: Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei. 
Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme. 
Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype. 
The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible. 
FURTHER SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:
Unfortunately, the tiny tumour deposit in the right fallopian tube "cut out" on the deeper levels cut for immunohistochemical stains, which are therefore non-contributary. However, this deposit is probably best regarded as a small metastatic deposit, for staging purposes.
9/5/2066cy

