
Episode No:  63P058433Z
6350584.JJZ

SCHOMAS, Maximo-BRENT 
Lab No:63P05843
Crowe Farm
NAROOMA  TAS  6558
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  2/11/1992
Sex:  M
Collected:2/6/2066 at :
Location:  ACT Genetic-JOHN HUNTER HOSPITAL ROYAL NEWCASTLE CENTRE
DR Zachery CLAY LUECKENOTTE
Distribution:  DR FERNANDO RESPES,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Cholangiocarcinoma.  Bile duct margin frozen section.  Omentum from Whipple and Whipple.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Bile duct", consists of a segment of bile duct 10mm diameter and 3mm length.  The distal margin is indicated by ink with orientation provided by the surgical registrar.  Embedded for frozen section in 1 block (true margin face up).
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
No invasive malignancy or high grade dysplasia.  Atypia present, possibly reactive.
Phone results to Dr P Yurkanin by Dr P Currington at 1350pm on 02/06/2066.
B.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of a Whipple's resection, with distal stomach, 65 x 35 x 30mm, and proximal small bowel 285mm in length and 75mm circumference.  There is attached lesseromentum, 80 x 30 x 15mm, and attached greater omentum, 85 x 80 x 35mm.  Also received is a separate piece of greater omentum, 400 x 240 x 20mm.  The head of the pancreas is 75 x 50 x 40mm.  There is a double suture on the pancreatic neck margin and single suture on the portal vein margin.  The gallbladder is 90 x 35 x 35mm, and contains multiple gallstones up to 14mm.  The cystic duct is 40mm in length and 5mm diameter.  The extra pancreatic common bile duct is 20mmin length and 8mm diameter.  The common bile duct is dilated, with a stent in situ.  A short black suture is present at the common hepatic duct margin.  The pancreatic neck and SMA margins are inked red, portal vein bed blue, uncinate margin black and posterior pancreatic surface green.  The soft tissue adjacent to the common hepatic duct / proximal bile duct is inked blue.  The soft tissue adjacent to the cystic duct is inked red.  Adjacent to the common bile duct isa 10mm lymph node.  The pancreas is serially sectioned from superior to inferior into nine slices, with the ampulla located in slice five.  Within slices five to seven is a firm pale irregular tumour, 12 x 5 x 15mm, which appears centred around the common bile duct.  The tumour is 3mm clear of the uncinate margin and posterior pancreas, 9mm from the SMA margin, 12mm from the portal vein margin and well clear of all other margins.  No other pancreatic lesions are identified..  
Blocks: 1 - proximal gastric margin; 2 - distal small bowel margin; 3 - cystic duct; 4 - gallbladder body; 5 - gallbladder fundus; 6 - lymph node adjacent to common bile duct;7 - shave hepatic duct margin; 8 to 11 - proximal bile duct serially embedded towards distal; 12 - shave pancreatic neck margin; 13 and 14 - multiple greater omentum lymph nodes; 15 - greater omentum; 16- slice one pancreas; 17 - slice two pancreas; 18 - slice three pancreas; 19 and 20 - slice four pancreas; 21 and 22 - slice five pancreas; 23 - slice six pancreas; 24 - slice seven pancreas; 25 - slice eight pancreas; 26 - slice nine pancreas.  Pancreas and common bile duct AE.  Please see block diagram.  Specimen photographs taken.  (TO: IY;FO/vo 2 9.2066) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof P Buczynski & Dr P Brasseux):
A.  Both the frozen and paraffin sections show bile duct with mild nuclear atypia of the lining epithelium. Patchy neutrophils are seen in the mucosa and inflammatory cells and fibrosis extend through the bile duct wall.  Overall, the features are favoured to represent reactive atypia, possibly related to a stent.  
There is no diagnostic evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.
B.  SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR PANCREATIC TUMOUR
Histological tumour type
Adenocarcinoma
It is difficult to definitively classify whether this tumour is cholangiocarcinoma arising from the common bile duct or pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, originatingin the main pancreatic duct in the head of the pancreas.  In one area, the tumour is seen circumferentially surrounding a large main duct with a possible point of origin (block B21).  However in other areas, the adjacent main pancreatic duct shows PanIN, which may represent a precursor lesion.
Histological grade
Grade 2: Moderately differentiated (50% to 95% of tumour composed of glands) 

Microscopic tumoursites 
The epicentre of the tumour is within the head of the pancreas, in the region of the common bile duct and appears to take originfrom an intra-pancreatic large duct which may represent the intra-pancreatic portion of the bile duct or possibly the main pancreatic duct.

Extent of tumour invasion 
Ampulla of Vater (submucosal in block B21)
Duodenal wall focally at the interface between the pancreas and duodenum in the region of the ampulla (B21)
Common bile duct (intrapancreatic)

Maximum tumour diameter:  15mm.
Lymphovascular invasion 
Not identified

Perineural invasion 
Suspicious
Perineural invasion of the superiormesenteric artery (uncinate) margin neural plexus
Not received 
Pre-invasive lesion 
Present
Preinvasive lesion
Present.  The pancreatic ducts show a spectrum of pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN), ranging from PanIN-1A to PanIN-2.  No carcinoma in-situ/PanIN-3 is identified.
Margins:
Invasive tumour:
Pancreatic neck:  At least 10mm clear.
Common bile duct:  At least 10mm clear.
Shave of hepatic duct margin: Inflammation and epithelial atypia are present. 
Inaddition, there are foci of atypia which border on low grade dysplasia.
Portal vein (superior mesenteric vein):  At least 10mm clear.
Superior mesenteric artery:  At least 10mm clear.
Periuncinate soft tissue:  At least 10mm clear.
Proximal (stomach):  At least 10mm clear.
Distal (duodenal):  At least 10mm clear.
Carcinoma in situ/PanIN-3 at margin:  Not identified.
PanIN-2:  Focally present at the periuncinate margin.
Surfaces:
 Anterior:  Invasive tumour is at least 10mm clear.
 Posterior:  Invasive tumour is 6mm clear.
Lymph nodes:
Number found:  Twenty-three (23).
Number involved:  Nil (0).
Other pathologies: 
Focal intestinal metaplasia is seen inthe common bile duct.
The common bile duct shows areas of ulceration and granulation tissue, likely representing reactive and inflammatory changes secondary to the stent. A spectrum of reactive epithelial atypia is seen.  Numerous neutrophils are present withinthe lining epithelium and also within the lumen.
In other areas closer to the invasive tumour, the epithelial atypia resemblesadenomatous change, bordering on low grade dysplasia. 
The gallbladder shows chronic cholecystitis and cholelithiasis.  
The node near the common bile duct contains lipogranulomas with dystrophic calcification.
The sections of stomach show mild chronic inflammation and focal intestinal metaplasia.
PATHOLOGICAL STAGING (AJCC 7th Ed.)

COMMON BILE DUCT
T3 Tumour invades the gallbladder, pancreas, duodenum, or other adjacent organs without involvement of the celiac axis, or the superior mesenteric artery
(The T stage is difficult as the tumour extends focally beyond the bile duct wall to the interface with duodenal wall at the region of the ampulla, but is best regarded asT3 as there is also pancreatic extension in the adjacent slice)
Regional lymph node category (pN)
N0 No regional lymph node metastasis
Distant metastasis category (pM) 
MX Not assessable by histology
COMMENT: 
A provisional result was discussed with Dr Bennie and a copy of report faxed to his rooms.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Bile duct margin:  No diagnostic evidence of malignancy.
B.  Whipples resection:  
-  Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in the head of the pancreas, arising from common bile duct.
-  Invasive adenocarcinoma clear of margins.
-  PanIN present (see text for margin).
-  Twenty-three negative lymph nodes (0/23).

