Episode No:  95Y350140V
959350.FMB

Morein, GIL Ling 
Lab No:  95Y35014
Back Broom
COFFS HARBOUR  TAS  2144
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  9/11/2012
Sex:  F
Collected: 13/05/2066 at 16:34
Location:  MACQUARIEWARD-MILLICENT AND DISTRICT HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SERVICES
DR BAILEY DWIGHT Keliipaakaua
Distribution:  DR NATHAN Schwager
CLINICAL:
Subtotal pancreatectomy + splenic for pancreatic tail lesion.  Sarcoidosis.  Duodenitis.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Subtotal pancreas and splenectomy" consists of pancreatic tail with attached spleen with the total specimen measuring 120 x 150 x 45mm.  The spleen measures120 x 70 x 45mm and pancreatic tail measures 70 x 40 x 20mm.  At the tail of the pancreas is a stapled margin.  Staple line on pancreatic marginremoved to a depth of 3mm and inked black.  The anterior surface of the pancreas contains haemorrhage and the cystic region is adjacent to surgical margin superficially.  Superior surface of pancreas inked black, anterior surface inked blue, posterior surface inked red.  Within the centre of the pancreatic remnants are two unilocular cystic lesions the first measuring 25 x 19 x 17mm and the second 19 x 10 x 13mm.  Spleen sliced into 5mm slices.  No abnormality seen.
Blocks:  1 - shave surgical margin; 2to 9 - full face pancreas from medial to lateral; 10 - peripancreatic lymph node; 11 to 13 - ?lymph nodes from hilum; 14 to 20 - ?hilar fat; 21 to 22 - RS spleen.  All of the pancreas is embedded.
B.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of omentum measuring 220 x 115 x 15mm.
Blocks:  1 to 4 - muscular ?lymph nodes.  (TO: II; ID/rt 16.5.66)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Z Harber):
The entire pancreas is embedded and examined.  The two adjacent apparent cystic lesions in the vicinity of the pancreatic tail,  measuring 25mm and 19mm respectively, show features most consistent with a tortuous vessel showing aneurysmal dilatation.  
The lesion is located outside the pancreatic parenchyma inadipose tissue.  The abnormally dilated and tortuous structure shows secondary thrombus, organising haemorrhage as well as recanalisation.  In areas there is cellular spindled stroma and subacute haemorrhage in the wall of the lesion, which  focally appears continuous with cellular intima of adjacent abnormal vessels.  Although this stroma resembles ovarian stroma,  immunostains for PR, inhibin, ER and CD10 are negative.  These finding essentially excludes a diagnosisof mucinous cystic neoplasm.  The spindled stroma is also AE1/AE3, desmin  and CD31 negative,  SMA shows weak non-specific blush.  Focal desmin expression is seen in the wall (Block A7) consistent with residual tunica media.  No epithelial lining is seen in multiple levels examined.  The wall of the lesion show variable hyalinisation but orcein staining shows a focal residual retracted elastic lamina ( Block A7).  Abnormal tortuous vessels immediately adjacent to the "cyst" show oblitertive changes with asymmetric intimal hyperplasia as well as recanalisation.  The profiles of these vessels/vessel have a well defined elastic lamina, most consistent with an artery.  Based on the location an aneurysmal  splenic artery or an aberrant tributary is favoured. 
 The pancreatic parenchyma adjacent to the cyst is unremarkable. There are patchy PaIN1 changes in some ducts.  Adjacent to the lesion there are some secondary changes in adjacent pancreatic parenchyma but no significant pancreatitis.  Multiple lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy.,. The spleen is unremarkable. The aneurysmal vessel is clear of the pancreatic resection margin.  No granulomatous inflammation seen.  No evidence of active vasculitis is seen.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
Subtotal pancreas and splenectomy:
-  Favour aneurysmal dilatation of an artery (presumably splenic) with secondary organising thrombus and recanalisation.
-  No evidence of an epithelial neoplasm.
Further correlation with the preoperative imaging findings including contrast phase scans, if performed, would be of interest.

The findings were discussed with Dr Z Rusche on several occasions.




