
EpisodeNo:  95D5730150
9515730.ENA

SABEAN, Bryan 
Lab No:  95D57301
Keymar
BUNDABERG  Victoria  7008
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  21/2/1994
Sex:  M
Collected: 20/05/2066 at 15:26
Location:  Southern-WONGAN HILLS HOSPITAL
DR ASA DARCY Braithwaite
Distribution:  DR JOSH FREIERMUTH
CLINICAL:
Total pancreatectomy.  1 x PV.  2 x SMA.  3 x uncinate process.  Silk suture on bile duct.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen unlabelled as to site or nature, consists of a total pancreatectomy including duodenum and spleen, metal stent (70 x 10 x10mm) and a separate piece of adipose tissue.  
The total pancreatectomy measures in total 270 x 150 x 100mm.  
The duodenum measures 300mm in length x 70mm in diameter and includes the distal antrum.  The small bowel wall thickness is up to 5mm and the mucosa is unremarkable.  The duodenal and antral margins are inked black. 
The bile duct has a silk suture present and measures 25mm in length x 15mm in diameter. The duct is dilated and thickened.
The pancreas measures 110mm in length x 40 x 25mm. The pancreas has a haemorrhagic serosal surface  and there are sutures orientating the specimen as follows:  One suture marks the portal vein margin (inked red); two sutures marks the SMA margin (inked blue); and three sutures marks the uncinate process (inked green).  The posterior surface of the pancreas is inked black and the anterior blue.  
On sectioning there is a diffuse tan lesion which is unencapsulated within the pancreatic head involving the common bile duct, measuring approximately 15 x 15 x 10mm.  The margin between tumour and sclerotic pancreas is difficult to define macroscopically.  The duct is dilated throughout the pancreas.  The pancreatic parenchyma within the body and tail appears atrophic and sclerotic.No other mass lesion is identified on sectioning.   
The tumour margins are as follows: approximately 15mm from the uncinate surface, 8mm from the portal vein margin, 7mm from the SMA margin, approximately18mm from the posterior pancreatic surface, 5mm from the anterior pancreatic surface.  L
The spleen measures 160 x 90 x 60mm, and on sectioning has a homogenous brown surface. No lesions are identified. Fibrofatty tissue covers the splenic hilum over 110 x 90 x 50mm.  
Lymph nodes are found within the perigastric, periuncinate and perispenic hilar fat.  
The separate piece of fat measures 260 x 90 x 20mm and there is no macroscopic lesion found on sectioning.  The pancreatic head is AE.  Photographs taken.
Blocks: 1 - duodenaland antral margins; 2 - shave bile duct margin; 3 to 5 - TS bile duct embedded from distal to proximal; 6 to 12 - pancreatic head from periuncinate to body; 13 & 14, 15 & 16, 17 & 18, 19 & 20, 21 - representative pancreactic body to tail; 22 to 26 - periduodenal lymph nodes (23 & 24 - one lymph node serially sectioned, 25 & 26 - lymph nodes as seen); 27 - periuncinate lymph nodes as seen; 28 to 30 - hilar lymph nodesas seen.  Please see diagram.  (TO: UD; WO/ta 23/5/66)
31 & 32, 33 & 34, 35 & 36, 37 & 38, 39 & 40, 41 & 42, 43 & 44, 45 & 46, 47 & 48 - Rest of pancreatic body and tail AE. 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof Y Benny and Dr Y Langfield):
The specimen was re-examined after assessment of the initial sections and all of the pancreas has been embedded. 
There is a widely infiltrative ductal adenocarcinoma centered around the main pancreatic duct extending throughout the pancreatic head and into the peri-pancreatic soft tissue spanning approximately 35mm. The invasive adenocarcinoma is associated with widespread high grade pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN3), mainly within the main pancreatic duct. The infiltrating glands are associated with a dense desmoplastic stromal response. 
A majority of the tumour is composed of well to moderately differentiated glands lined by elongated mucinous cells with hyperchromatic basally orientated nuclei. There is a microscopic, focal area of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma which has a solid architecture with rounded, hyperchromatic nuclei and prominent nucleoli. 
The distal pancreas shows high grade PanIN however no invasive carcinoma is present. There is widespread atrophic pancreatitis with destruction of pancreatic acinii and fibrosis.  These changes made macroscopic delineation of the distal tumour extent difficult to assess. 
A synoptic report is as follows:

SUMMARY PANCREATIC TUMOUR 

Histological tumour type: 
Ductal adenocarcinoma, 
	A majority of the tumour has a well to moderately differentiated glandular pattern.
	One focus of  poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma is present measuring 2mm within the edge of the pancreatic parenchyma, 6mm from the overlying SMA margin. This focus is close to an involved peripancreatic lymph node, which contains similar high grade carcinoma (see below). Possible lymphatic invasion is seen adjacent to this focus. 


Histological grade: 
Grade 2: Moderately differentiated (50% to 95% of tumour composed of glands) 

Microscopic tumour sites: 
Head of the pancreas and uncinate process.
Pancreatic tail

Extent of tumour invasion: 
Pancreas - including microscopic foci of invasion within pancreatic tail. 
Peripancreatic fat 
Ampulla of Vater - within muscularis propria, but not involving mucosa of the ampulla (Block 6)
Duodenal wall, into the submucosa, but not extending into lamina propria of the mucosa (Block 6). Carcinoma is also seen invading into the muscularis propria of the duodenum (Block 7). 

Maximum tumour diameter:  32mm (main tumour mass).
Microscopic foci of invasion are also seen within the pancreatic tail (block 19) measuring 1 - 2mm. 

Lymphovascular invasion: 
Probable venous invasion is seen in Block 7 withinperipancreatic fat 1mm from uncinate margin. 
Also, lymphovascular invasion within vessels in perinodal soft tissue is seen adjacent to an invoved lymph node in Block 27.

Perineural invasion: 
Present  - numerous foci of neural invasion are seen, including foci within peripancreatic fat (Blocks 6, 7, 8 and 9). Involved nerves are seen close to the periuncinate margin (within 1mm).

Perineural invasion of the superior mesenteric artery (uncinate) margin neural plexus: 
There are several large nerves identified at the junction of the green inked periuncinate and blue inked SMA margins, some of which contain perineural tumour.  One large involved nerve is within 0.5mm of the margin at the junction of periuncinate and SMA margins.

Pre-invasive lesion: 
Present. A spectrum of PanIN I to III is present within pancreatic ducts throughout the pancreas. 

Margins: 
Common bile duct: Clear of tumour - The bile duct shows changes  consistent with the presence of a stent. Reactive epithelial atypia is seen but there is no diagnostic evidence of tumour at this margin.
Portal vein (superior mesenteric vein): 5mm (Block 9)
Superior mesenteric artery: 2.2mm (Block 7) 
Periuncinate soft tissue: 0.5mm (Block 8) 
Duodenal and antral margins: Clear of tumour 

Surfaces: 
Anterior: 5mm (Block 10) 
Posterior: 0.5mm(Block 6) 

Lymph nodes: 
Number found: 
Periuncinate: 4
Peripancreatic head: 10
Peripancreatic tail: 18
Perigastric: 4
Splenic hilum: 4 

Number involved: 2 in total.
Periuncinate: 1 (2.2mm deposit of carcinoma, with extra nodal extension intofat)
Peripancreatic head: 1 (4mm deposit)
Peripancreatic tail: 0
Perigastric: 0
Splenic hilum: 0

Other pathologies: 
The bile duct shows changes  consistent with the presence of a stent, consisting of mucosal ulceration and inflammation associated with mucinous metaplasia and epithelial hyperplasia. Reactive epithelial atypia is seen but there is no diagnostic evidence of tumour or dysplasia.

The distal pancreas shows pancreatic atrophy and fibrosis consistent with chronic pancreatitis. 
The spleen also shows congestivechanges but there is no diagnostic evidence of malignancy seen. 
The duodenum is unremarkable.

PATHOLOGICAL STAGING (AJCC 7th Ed.) 
PANCREAS 
Primary tumour category (pT) 
T3Tumour extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement of the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery 

Regional lymph node category (pN) 
N1 Regional lymph node metastasis 

Distant metastasis category(pM) 
MX Not assessable by histology 


DIAGNOSIS: 
TOTAL PANCREATECTOMY: 
MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED PANCREATIC DUCT ADENOCARCINOMA 
	MARGINS CLOSE (mainly by perineural invasion)
	2 OUT OF 40 LYMPH NODES POSITIVE FOR CARCINOMA (2/240)
	pT3 N1 MX


