Episode No:  22M215089D
2242150.WZD

GARGUILO, Aldo 
Lab No:  22M21508,22M21508
Trawalla
WARRAGUL  NT  3487
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  9/7/2009
Sex:  M
Collected: 19/12/2061 at 18:35
Location:  ACT - MALDON HOSPITAL
DR MONTY Booker Hassell
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Habitats, hypertensive, hypothyroidism, adenocarcinoma head of pancreas, Whipple procedure.  Proteinuria and haematuria.  Pancreatic cancer, Whipple's now diabetic, started Gemcitabine 6 months ago, finished 3 weeks ago.  New onset HT 1 wk ago.  Gradually deteriorating Cr since Whipple's.  Cr initially 60 now 124.  High retic and low haptoglobin.  Anaemia ?HUS.  ADAMTS 13 pending.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen unlabelled as to site or nature consists of two cores measuring, 7 and 9mm in length.  Divided for LM, EM and IF.  (BE 20.12.61)
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr G Lagerman):  
The biopsy includes: 
Renal cortex only. No medullary tissue or arterial cross sections are seen. 

Glomeruli: 
Total number in biopsy: 15 

Number totally sclerotic: 0 

Number partially sclerotic: 0 

Crescents: 0 

Glomerular morphology: 
The glomeruli show widespread thickening of the capillary loops. On silver staining, this is mostly due to acute endothelial swelling and expansion of the subendothelial space. Focal duplication of the basement membranes is seen, in keeping with early chronic changes. A fibrin thrombus is seen in one glomerulus.  There is patchy expansion of the mesangium by silver negative material, in keeping with mesangiolysis. Red blood cell fragmentation is also present.

No crescents are identified. No advanced sclerosing lesions are seen.

Tubules, interstitium: 
Patchy moderate oedema is seen in the interstitium. Focal early fibrosis is present.  The tubules show mild degenerative and regenerative changes in keeping with mild acute tubular injury. 

Vessels: 
The arterioles show extensive endothelial swelling with focal closure of the lumens. Focal hyalinosis is present. There is no convincing fibrinoid necrosis. No fibrin thrombi are identified. No intimal fibrosis is seen.

Amyloid: 
Congo red stain for amyloid is negative. 

Immunofluorescence: 
Two glomeruli are seen on frozen sections.
IgG, IgA, IgM, C3, C1q, fibrinogen, kappa and lambda light chain are negative. 

Immunostains: 
Not performed. 

Electron microscopy: 
Pending. 


COMMENT: 
The biopsy show changes of thrombotic microangiopathy, and would be in keeping with haemolytic uraemic syndrome in the appropriate clinical setting.

Acute changes are present, including widespread thickening of the capillary loops (with endothelial swelling/subendothelial widening), associated with mesangiolysis and a fibrin thrombus in one glomerulus.
Focal duplication of the glomerular basement membranes and focal, early fibrosis are seen in keeping with early chronic changes.
No advanced chronic sclerosing lesions are seen in the glomeruli. 

There is no evidence of glomerulonephritis present.
ELECTRON MICROSCOPY (Daku Oland, 10/1/62)
One glomerulus was examined by EM.  There is marked effacement of foot processes.  The majority of capillary loops show marked thickening with double contours with interpositioning by mesangial cell processes, mild expansion of the subendothelial spaces and reduplication of the lamina densa.  Endothelial cells are swollen and contracted.  There is little mesangial expansion and evidence of mesangiolysis.  No dense deposits, fibrin or abnormal fibrils are seen.  Interstitium, tubules and vessels are unremarkable.
Comment: The appearances are similar to those described by light microscopy, and are consistent with a thrombotic microangiopathysubclass HUS.

