CLINICAL:
Pelvic mass, raised ca 125.  Cholesterol, pre diabetic.  R ovary/tube biopsy, left hemicolectomy, omentum + appendix.  


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel mesentery nodule", consists of pink pale nodular tissue measuring 40 x 25 x 10mm.  The cut surface is pale and creamy with pink areas.  One slice for frozen section. Blocks: 1 & 2 - one slice for frozen section (1 - frozen section one; 2 - frozen section two); 3 to 5 - further RS nodule.  

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:   Metastatic carcinoma - some features suggestive of adeno-squamous differentiation, shown to Dr S Bartholemew.  
Results to Dr HOWARD Adkisson by A/Prof S Villarrvel at 2:30pm on 28/06/66.

B.  Specimen labelled "R ovary/tube biopsy", consists of tan brown tissue with a disrupted pink area measuring 80 x 70 x 40mm.  The cut surface is creamy pale and  fleshy.  There is no obvious fallopian tube seen  Two x frozen section.    
Blocks: 1 - frozen section one; 2 - frozen section two; 3 to 12 - RS from tumour.  

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:Adeno Ca.
Result to Dr Archie by Dr S Krach at 4:42pm on 28/06/66

C.  Specimen labelled "Uterus + cervix", consists of a uterus with attached cervix and probable tubes, weighing 75g. Orientation of the  specimen is difficult.  The uterus measures 65 x 40 x 23mm and has a smooth serosal shiny surface.  The ectocervix measures 30 x 27mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning, most of the endometrium measures up to 1mm thick and the myometrium measures up to 18mm thick.  At the fundus of the anterior body is an endometrial nodule measuring 15 x 14mm.  The cut surface reveals an ill defined mass measuring 35mm wide with a thickness of 16mm, deep to the nodule.  The myometrium also shows a several  fibroids measuring from 5 to 15mm.  The  presumed right fallopian tube stump measures 20mm with an outer diameter of 6mm.  Attached to the stump is loose tan brown tissue measuring 35 x 20 x 15mm.  The presumed left fallopian tube measures 40mm in length with an outer diameter of 6mm.  The fimbrial end is difficult to identify.  There is also a mass adjacent to the fallopian tube measuring 30 x 35 x 15mm.  Blocks: 1 to 4 - full LS anterior body and cervix; 5 & 6 - further RS with the nodule; 7 to 10 - full LS posterior body and cervix; 11 to 13 - RS fibroid; 14 & 15 - all fallopian tube and RS adherent tissue (14 - fallopian tube; 15 - RS adherent tissue); 16 to 18 - left fallopian tube; 19 & 20 - RS mass adherent to left fallopian tube. 

D.  Specimen labelled "Pelvic mass", consists of fragments of tan tissue measuring 140 x 130 x 40mm.  The cut surface shows heterogeneous pale haemorrhagic and cystic areas.  RS embedded in blocks 1 to 10 (10 - for tumour banking)

E.  Specimen labelled "Right pelvic side wall peritoneum", consists of a single piece of tan brown tissue measuring 25 x 15 x 8mm.  AE 1 block.

F.  Specimen labelled "Left side wall peritoneum", consists of a piece of pale tan tissue measuring 37 x 18 x 6mm.  AE 1 block.

G.  Specimen labelled "Appendix", consists of an appendix measuring 50mm in length with an outer diameter of 8mm.  The mesoappendix measures up to 10mm.  The serosal surface appears smooth with congested vessels. Cut surface show pattern lumen.  Blocks: 1 - two LS base; 2 - RS mid appendix; 3 - two RS tip.  

H.  Specimen labelled "Left hemicolectomy", consists of a segment of bowel with a stapled end and a non-stapled end measuring 550mm in length with an open circumference of 50mm.  The mesocolon measures up to 50mm.  There are two tumour deposits on the serosal surface, with associated adhesions and fat wrapping.  One deposit is 80mm from the unstapled margin and measures 110 x 90 x 50mm.  The other is situated 30mm from the stapled margin and measures 80 x 60 x 50mm.  On sectioning both tumour deposits show infiltration into the fat but no macroscopic invasion of the bowel wall.  On the mucosal surface there is third tumour mass; this is an a ulcerated polyp situated 35mm from the non-stapled margin and measures 25 x 20 x 8mm.  On sectioning it is seen to infiltrate all the layers of the bowel wall.  The rest of the mucosal surface is oedematous and unremarkable.  Several lymph nodes are identified.  Blocks: 1 - opened end margin; 2 - stapled end margin; 3 & 4 - RS nodule protruding into the mucosal surface; 5 to 7 - RS nodule/fat wrapping towards the stapled margin; 8 & 9 - RS nodule/adhesions closer to the stapled margin; 10 - RS normal bowel; 11 - lymph nodes as seen; 12 - lymph nodes as seen; 13 - one lymph node; 14 - one lymph node; 15 - one lymph node; 16 - one lymph node; 17 - one lymph node.  (TO: SR; ET/ta 30/6/66) 


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr S Bierod):
A.   Sections show tumour tissue.  The tumour is a malignant mixed Mullerian tumour with heterologous element.  The epithelial component is predominantly grade 3 endometrioid adenocarcinoma with some squamous differentiation, but there is also some high grade serous carcinoma.  The stromal component is predominantly spindle cell carcinoma and there are foci of cartilaginous differentiation.  No normal tissue is seen. 

B.  Sections show malignant mixed Mullerian tumour similar to specimen A.  The epithelial component is partly grade 3 endometrioid adenocarcinoma and partly high grade serous carcinoma.  The stroma is a spindle cell and pleomorphic sarcoma and shows focal cartilaginous differentiation.  There is patchy tumour necrosis.  No normal ovary or fallopian tube is identified.

C.   Sections of the mass at the fundus show malignant mixed Mullerian tumour with heterologous element.  This involves endometrium and extends through the myometrium to the serosa.  Maximum depth of myometrial invasion is 14mm out of a total myometrial thickness of 14mm.  The epithelial component is mixed high grade endometrioid and serous carcinoma, and the stromal component is high grade pleomorphic sarcoma with foci of malignant cartilage.  There is lymphovascular invasion in the adjacent myometrium.  The endometrium elsewhere is atrophic.  A section of the posterior cervix shows metastatic malignant mixed Mullerian tumour on the serosa and in subserosal tissue.  The cervix is otherwise unremarkable.  There is extensive involvement of the serosa and underlying myometrium of the posterior uterus by metastatic malignant mixed Mullerian tumour.  There are leiomyomas in the myometrium and there is also adenomyosis in the myometrium.  
Sections of the right fallopian tube show serosal involvement by malignant mixed Mullerian tumour.  Sections of the left fallopian tube show focal serosal involvement by metastatic malignant mixed Mullerian tumour.  Some normal left ovarian tissue is identified. The described mass adherent to the left fallopian tube is malignant mixed Mullerian tumour with heterologous element, similar to the tumour seen elsewhere.   

D.   Sections show a mass of malignant mixed Mullerian tumour with heterologous element, similar to the tumour seen elsewhere.  There is some overlying benign fibromuscular tissue with a mesothelial surface.  Some apparent fallopian tube is present within the tissue and this is surrounded by tumour.   

E.   Sections show mesothelium with underlying fibrofat.  There is extensive involvement by metastatic malignant mixed Mullerian tumour.  No heterologous elements are seen. 

F.   Sections show mesothelium with underlying fibrofat and also some smooth muscle. There is extensive involvement by metastatic high grade carcinoma most consistent with high grade serous carcinoma.  No definite malignant stromal component is seen.  

G.  Sections show appendix. There is some serosal involvement by metastatic high grade serous carcinoma.  No malignant stromal component is identified.  The appendix is otherwise unremarkable. 

H.  Sections of the described mucosal polyp show a deposit of malignant mixed Mullerian tumour involving the full thickness of the bowel wall and ulcerating the overlying mucosa.  There is focal malignant cartilage in the stromal component. The epithelial component is mainly high grade serous carcinoma.  Sections of the described serosal nodules also show deposits of metastatic malignant mixed Mullerian tumour.  These both involve the serosa and extend into outer muscularis propria.  The end resection margins of the bowel are both free of tumour.  Fifteen (15) mesenteric lymph nodes which were found are all free of tumour.  Two small extranodal deposits of metastatic tumour are identified in the mesentery.  


DIAGNOSIS:
A.   Small bowel mesentery nodule:  Malignant mixed Mullerian tumour with heterologous element. 
B.   Right ovary/tube:  Malignant mixed Mullerian tumour with heterologous element. 
C.   Uterus:  
1.   Malignant mixed Mullerian tumour with heterologous element involving fundus of uterus, left adnexa and serosa of uterus, cervix and fallopian tubes. 
2.   Leiomyomas and adenomyosis. 
D.   Pelvic mass:  Malignant mixed Mullerian tumour with heterologous element.
E.   Right pelvic side wall peritoneum:  Malignant mixed Mullerian tumour.
F.   Left side wall peritoneum:  Metastatic high grade serous carcinoma. 
G.  Appendix:  Serosal involvement by metastatic serous carcinoma.
H.  Left hemicolectomy:  Deposits of metastatic malignant mixed Mullerian tumour with heterologous element.  
Comment:  Tumour at the uterine fundus involves the endometrium and the full thickness of the myometrium.  This may be the primary site but pattern of serosal involvement elsewhere on the uterus and cervix is consistent with metastatic involvement.  I am uncertain whether the tumour is of endometrial origin or adnexal (ovarian) origin.

 


