
17S98811 (17S988112O) KISTO, Barney 

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT: 

HISTORY:
Redo peritonectomy for appendix adenoca. Small bowel resection, colectomy, mesenteric lymph node, para-aortic lymph nodes, large anterior abdominal wall mass. 

MACROSCOPIC: 
"SMALL BOWEL, COLON, PARA-AORTIC LYMPH NODES, MESENTERIC LYMPH NODES". 
?Para-aortic nodes - A mass of fibrofatty tissue unorientated measuring  up to 160x50x25mm. On sectioning multiple nodes are identified including node macroscopically involved by tumour with glistening cut surface measuring  20mm in maximum extent. In one area mucinous tumour appears to be involving adherent skeletal muscle. 

(1 five possible nodes; 2-4 RS of involved nodes [2 with skeletal muscle]). 

Colon - A segment of unorientated colon measuring  400mm in length and 40mm in diameter. The external surface shows some adhesions and haemorrhagic areas. No areas of tumour deposit are identified. On opening the mucosa shows some petechial haemorrhaging and within 80mm of one resection there is haemorrhagic patches of mucosa, present at the resection margin inked blue. The opposing resection margin is inked blue. No polyps or mass lesions are identified.

(5 LS resection margin with haemorrhagic mucosa; 6 opposing resection margin; 7 RS haemorrhagic mucosa; 8 RS surface adhesions; 9&10 nodes near black inked resection margin [9 five nodes; 10 two nodes]; 11 mid section nodes [four possible nodes]; 12 five possible proximal area nodes)

Small bowel/Colon- Five segments of small bowel and colon measuring  from smallest length 35mm and longest 130mm. The segments are ordered 1-5 from small to largest. The largest segment has a tumour mass on the mesenteric fat measuring  25mm in maximal extent. Segment 4 has numerous adhesions and area of tumour deposit. On serosal surface measuring  30x25mm. Segment 1,2 and 3 show adhesions. Segment 2 has sutured an area of out-pouching of wall (inked red). On opening segment 1 and 2 show masses in the lumen (?tumour segment) ?granulation tissue segment 2. Segment 3 shows haemorrhagic mucosa similar to that seen in the colon previously described. Segment 4 is unremarkable and segment 5 is unremarkable. The resection margins of the specimen are each inked blue and black respectively.

(13 LS segment with both resection margins and tumour; 14&15 LS resection margins segment 2; 16-19 segment 3 [16&17 LS resection margin; 18 RS adhesions; 19 bisected possible mesenteric node]; 20-23 segment 4 [20&21 LS resection margins; 22 serosal tumour deposit; 23 20mm involved mesenteric node]; 24-26 segment 5 [24&25 LS resection margins; 26 RS involved mesenteric 20mm node]).

Pelvic mass - A mass of tissue measuring up to 140x90mm. There are three segments of bowel attached, one measuring 80mm in length and 30mm in diameter (resection margins inked blue and black). The second measuring  80mm in length and 30mm in diameter (resection margin inked red and blue). The third measuring  up to 120mm in length and 35mm in diameter (resection margins inked green and black). The posterior aspect of the specimen has adherent skeletal muscle and fat. This is inked black. On opening the protruding into the lumen of the presumed large bowel segment there is gelatinous tumour which on sectioning is continuous with the larger pelvic mass measuring  up to 110x100x50mm. It appears to approach the black inked resection margin in areas. 

(27&28 LS resection margins of colon segment with ulcerating tumour in lumen; 29&30 tumour protruding into lumen; 31&32 soft tissue resection margins with  black ink [32 with two sections including muscle]; 33&34 LS resection margins separate bowel segment; 35 LS resection margins other separate bowel segment with blue and black ink; 36 tumour with adherent bowel [two]; 37 tumour with adherent third bowel; 38 tumour reserve block). RS (M-38/OG/ht).

MICROSCOPIC:     (Dr. C Fricke)
Sections of the enlarged para-aortic node show a circumscribed nodule containing metastatic poorly-differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma. The nodule is encapsulated and a rim of lymphoid tissue is noted along the edge suggestive of metastatic carcinoma replacing the entire lymph node. The other five lymph nodes show no evidence of metastatic tumour. 

Sections from the separate segment of colon show haemorrhagic mucosa. No evidence of malignancy is seen in twelve lymph nodes identified. 

Sections from the longest small bowel segment show metastatic pooly-differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma. The tumour involves lamina propria, submucosa and muscularis propria. No free serosal involvement and mucosa of both resection margins appear clear of tumour.

One other small bowel segment also shows metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma.

The other segments show colonic mucosa with mucosal haemorrhage. One mesenteric lymph node shows involvement by carcinoma. 

Sections of the pelvic mass confirm poorly-differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma. Occasional signet ring cells are identified. The tumour is surrounded and encased by adhering colonic and two small bowel loops, and is bordered on one surface by striated muscle from anterior abdominal wall. The tumour is 8mm from the soft tissue excision margin.  Assessment of lymphovascular invasion is difficult as the tumour cells show clefting artefact and are surrounded by rich myxoid background. However, there are focal changes suspicious for lymphatic permeation. 

DIAGNOSIS: 
SMALL BOWEL, COLON, PARA-AORTIC LYMPH NODE, MESENTERIC LYMPH NODE
- METASTATIC MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA INVOLVING TWO OUT OF SEVEN PARA-AORTIC LYMPH NODES. 
- METASTATIC MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA INVOLVING SMALL BOWEL AND ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL. LOCAL RESECTION MARGINS APPEARS CLEAR.

25/7/2066 cy


