 6450091.TCW
Dural, Ira
64O00917

Last edited : 27/1/2065		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Rectal Ca.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Rectum" consists of a segment of colon 170mm in length, 65mm in maximum open circumference.  The perirectal fatty tissue resection margin is smooth and no disruption.  Distal resection margin is inked blue.  The radial resection margin of the peri-rectum fatty tissue is inked black.  The peritoneal reflection to the distal resection margin measures 40mm.  There is adiscoid lesion 20mm in diameter.  The lesion extends to the distal resection margin and 20mm below the peritoneal reflection.  The lesion is located at the posterior aspect of the rectum.  The lesion invades possibly the inner portion ofthe muscularis propria.  Ten possible small lymph nodes identified.
Blocks:  1 to 4 - LS of the lesion with distal margin (lesional tissue AE); 5 - proximal margin; 6 & 7 - three lymph nodes; 8 - one node bisected; 9 - three nodes.
(JR/rt 23.1.65)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr R Koizumi):
Sections of rectum show reactive change.  The macroscopic identified area shows marked fibrosis.  Several small pools of acellular mucin are present within the submucosa.  No viable residual tumour cells are seen.  The appearances are in keeping with complete response to the previous neoadjuvent therapy.  The adjacent colonic mucosa is unremarkable.  The resection margins are unremarkable.  Eight (8) lymph nodes are identified in total.  The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of tumour metastasis.
Synoptic Report for Large Bowel Carcinoma
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:  Rectum
Maximum tumour diameter:  20mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  0mm
Tumour perforation:  No
For rectal tumours
Relation of tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection:	  Below
Microscopic Description

Type
No residual tumour present, please see previous biopsy
Differentiation by predominant area
Not applicable
Local invasion
pT0		No evidence of primary tumour
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:  Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not involved
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  Not applicable
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:  8
Number of lymph nodes involved:  0
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
At the site of previous tumour, several small pools of acellular mucin are present within the submucosa.  No viable residual tumour cells are seen.  The adjacent colonic mucosa is unremarkable.  
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Grade 0 (complete response) - No viable cancer cells
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
Not performed
The block best for molecular genetic testing is:  Not applicable (no residual tumour)

Summary - TNM 7th Edition
(y)pT0     pN0     pMXR0


DIAGNOSIS:
Rectum - No residual tumour (complete response to neoadjuvent therapy).

