
Episode No:  17M470496L
1744704.YSL

KRULIK, Andre 
Lab No:  17M47049
N Allen
YANCHEP  Tasmania  1490
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/8/2018
Sex:  F
Collected: 22/7/2065 at :
Location:  ST GEORGE PRIVATE -YOUNG DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR Ross BUFORD Dancy
Distribution:  DR Aurelio
CLINICAL:
VIN 3 with evidence of early invasion on biopsy.  Asthma.  Smoker.  VIN 3.  TIA age 47.  Posterior vulva, suture right anterior.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Posterior vulva stitch right side anterior" consists of butterfly shape specimen 70 x 65 x 14mm.  There is a suture marking right anterior.  There is an ill-defined slightly raised pale plaque on the skin with surface dimensions of 45 x 40 x 3mm.  Lateral margins are inked blue and medial and centre are inked black.
Blocks:  1 to 15 - the anterior part of the specimen blocked sequentially from left to right (1 & 2 - soft tissue only); 16 to18 - one slice; 19 to 21 - one slice; 22 to 24 - one slice; 25 to 27 - one slice; 28 to 30 - one slice; 31 to 34 - one slice; 35 to 38 - left posterior, blocked from anterior to posterior;39 to 42 - right posterior, blocked from anterior to posterior.  AE.  Please see the diagram.

B.  Specimen labelled "Posterior anal margin" consists of an unorientated polypoid piece of skin 25 x 10 x 3mm.  The base of the polypoid piece is inked blue.  Serially sliced and sequentially blocked in 3 blocks.  AE.
C.  Specimen labelled "Pigmented lesion anterior vulval vestibule" consists of a punch biopsy 3mm in diameter and 4mm in depth.  The margin is inked blue.  AE 1 block.  (TO: KE; AQ/rt 23.7.65)
MICROSCOPIC(Reported by Dr Y Shumsky):
A.  The specimen has been embedded in itsentirety.  
Sections show multiple small foci of early invasive squamous cell carcinoma on a background of extensive vulval intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) 3.  The invasive carcinoma is marked by detached nests of dysplastic squamous cells surrounded by desmoplastic stroma.  Paradoxical maturation can be seen focally.  There is no evidence of lymphovascular space invasion.  In addition, multiple areas demonstrate blurring ofthe basement membrane and irregular budding of the squamous cells, best described as imminent/incipient invasion.  All the invasive foci are located centrally, well clear of the peripheral resection margins.
VIN3 display full thickness dysplasia and complex architectural pattern with multifocal extension into the underlying adnexal structures.  Dysplasiafocally extends to the superior resection margin (A10) and is otherwise clear of the margins.  
B.  Sections show a benign fibroepithelial polyp.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Sections show skin to thedeep dermis with mild acanthosis and parakeratosis of the surface epithelium.  There is minimal spongiosis and occasional intraepithelial chronic inflammatory cells.  Patchy areas of mild basal pigmentation can be seen with no features of confluent melanocytic hyperplasia.  Scattered melanophages can be seen in the superficial dermis.   The dermis is mildly fibrotic and contains ectatic vessels.  No nevi can be seen.There is no evidence of malignant melanocytic lesion.
COMMENT:  Features are non specific and suggestive of post inflammation hyperpigmentation.  However, vulval melanosis can not be excluded in the appropriate clinical setting.  Please correlate.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Posterior vulva:
-  Multifoci early invasive SCC.
-  Extensive VIN 3, focally extending to the superior margin.
-  No LVSI.
-  Margins clear for invasive carcinoma.
B.  Posterior anal margin:  Fibroepithelial polyp.
C.  Pigmented lesion anterior vulval vestibule:  Mild reactive changes and dermal melanophages.  Please see comment.




