CLINICAL :
2063 cervical cancer FIGO stage 1A1 for which cold knife conisation.  Mar 2066 pap smear negative.  Right middle lobectomy (lung) for mucoepidermoid carcinoma. 


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix and left ovary + Mirena", consists of a uterus with attached disrupted cervix, left ovary, no fallopian tube, weighing 77g in total.  The uterus measures 70 x 60 x 40mm and has a smooth but haemorrhagic serosal surface.  The ectocervix is disrupted along the posterior lip and measures 25 x 20mm in area.  The endometrium is up to 2mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is up to 15mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  The right and left fallopian tubes are not present.  The left ovary measures 30 x 15 x 15mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.  The anterior soft tissue radial margin is inked green and the posterior disrupted soft tissue margin is inked black.  The cervix and lower uterine segment is AE.    Blocks 1-3 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 4 & 5 - anterior right cervix; 6 -9 - anterior left cervix; 10-12 - full LS of posterior body and ragged lower uterine segment; 13-16 - posterior right endocervix/lower uterine segment; 17-20 - posterior left endocervix/lower uterine segment; 21 - rep ovary. 

B.  Specimen labelled "Left fallopian tube", consists of two fallopian tubes.  Fallopian tube 1 measures 50 x 10 x 10mm and is unremarkable.  Fallopian tube 2 measures 60 x 10 x 10mm and is unremarkable. RS.  Blocks 1 & 2 - fallopian tube 1; 3 & 4 - fallopian tube 2.  

C.  Specimen labelled "Vaginal margin bx", consists of a piece of tan tissue, 9 x 4 x 4mm. The presumed deep aspect is inked and the specimen bisected. AE 2 blocks.      
(TO:  NR/ec  20.7.66)


MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr D Deiters)
A.  The cervix shows endometriosis with a focal mucosal erosion. The cervix has been examined in its entirety and no evidence of HPV, CIN or cervical malignancy is seen. The endometrium shows progestational change with focal mild chronic inflammation in keeping with mild chronic endometritis. The myometrium shows extensive adenomyosis. There is no evidence of endometrial complex hyperplasia or malignancy.

B.  Section of the left fallopian tube show no significant histologic abnormality. There is no evidence of malignancy. 

C.  Multiple levels of the vaginal biopsy show a fragment of smooth muscle showing severe diathermy artefact. Although the diathermy obscures much of the biopsy tissue, no diagnostic evidence of malignancy is seen in the levels examined. 


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, cervix and left ovary: Cervical endometriosis, progestational endometrium, mild chronic endometritis and adenomyosis. No evidence of HPV effect, CIN, complex atypical  hyperplasia or malignancy. 

B.  Left fallopian tube: No evidence of malignancy. 

C.  Vaginal margin biopsy: Smooth muscle showing severe diathermy artefact. No evidence of malignancy. 



