

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (25.7.66):

AMENDED REPORT (25.7.66):


CLINICAL:
Cervical cancer.  Radical hysterectomy.  Frozen section.  Left external iliac nodule.  Squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix.  


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left external iliac node", consists of a lymph node measuring 18 x 10 x 6mm.  The lymph node is serially sectioned AE for frozen section. 
Blocks: 1 - frozen section deblocked. 

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
One negative lymph node. 
Result to Dr Aurelio (anaesthetist) by Dr B Tools and Dr B Talas at 12:05 on 18/07/66

B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, tubes and ovaries", consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and bilateral ovaries weighing 217g in total.  The uterus measures 110 x 80 x 60mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 50 x 45mm and has a polypoid exophytic haemorrhagic tumour involving the anterior lip and right posterior lip.  It  measures 40mm antero-posteriorly x 40mm wide x 40mm long.  The tumour is approximately 15mm from the closest vaginal cuff margin which is anterior.  The tumour infiltrates deeply into cervical stroma and is 3mm from the radial soft tissue margin at the closest point. 
The endometrium has irregular polypoid thickenings along the anterior and posterior surfaces.  Along the anterior wall the areas of thickening measure 50 x 20mm in area.  Along the posterior wall the areas of thickening measure 50 x 15mm in area.  The areas of thickening are up to 5mm in thickness.  The myometrium is up to 27mm in thickness and has a trabeculated appearance.  
The right fallopian tube measures 50 x 5 x 5mm.  The right ovary measures 30 x 15 x 15mm and has an unremarkable apparence.  The left fallopian tube measures 50 x 7 x 7mm.  The left ovary measures 30 x 20 x 15mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.  The right and left adnexal soft tissues are haemorrhagic and no lesions are identified macroscopically.  The anterior surface is inked green and the posterior black.  The cervix is AE.  
Blocks: 1 - right ovary; 2 - right fallopian tube; 3 - left ovary; 4 - left fallopian tube; 5 to 8 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 9 & 10, 11 & 12, 13, 14 - left anterior endometrium; 15; representative thickened anterior endometrium; 16 & 17, 18 & 19, 20 & 21 - anterior right endometrium; 22 to 25 - full LS posterior body and cervix; 26 to 29 - posterior right endometrium; 30 & 31 - posterior left endometrium; 32 - representative thickened posterior endometrium.  Please see diagram. 

C.  Specimen labelled "Right parametrium", consists of a haemorrhagic piece of fibroadiopse tissue measuring 15 x 15 x 5mm.  No tumour is identified macroscopically.  AE 1 block.

D.  Specimen labelled "Right external iliac node", consists of a piece of ragged fibroadipose tissue 40 x 20 x 10mm.  Lymph nodes are found measuring from 5 to 30mm in maximum dimension.  The lymph nodes are AE.
Blocks: 1 - lymph nodes as seen; 2 - one lymph node serially sectioned.  

E.  Specimen labelled "Right obturator node", consists of a ragged piece of fibroadipose tissue measuring 30 x 20 x 10mm.  Lymph nodes are found measuring from 2 to 5mm in maximum dimension.  Lymph nodes AE 1 block.

F.  Specimen labelled "Left external iliac lymph node", consists of a ragged piece of fibroadipose tissue 50 x 30 x 10mm.  Lymph nodes are found measuring from 3 to 10mm in maximum dimension.  Lymph nodes AE.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - lymph node as seen. 

G.  Specimen labelled "Left obturator lymph node", consists of a ragged piece of fibroadipose tissue measuring 60 x 30 x 10mm.  Lymph nodes are found measuring from 5 to 15mm in maximum dimension.  Largest lymph node serially sectioned. RS.
Blocks: 1 - possible lymph nodes; 2 - one lymph node serially sectioned; 3 - possible lymph node.  
H.  Specimen labelled "Left common iliac lymph nodes", consists of a ragged piece of haemorrhagic fibroadipose tissue measuring 30 x 15 x 10mm.  Lymph nodes are found measuring from 5 to 8mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks: 1 - lymph nodes; 2 - possible lymph node.  

I.  Specimen labelled "Right common iliac lymph node", consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue 30 x 10 x 5mm containing a 20mm lymph node.  Specimen serially sectioned AE 1 block.
(TO: FA; HK/ta 19/7/66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr B Kempe):
A.  Sections show one lymph node.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

B.  There is a 40mm diameter poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma arising within the transformation zone of the cervix.  The carcinoma is composed of oval cells, with eosinophilic cytoplasm, irregular oval nuclei with coarse chromatin and nucleoli.  There are very scant intercellular bridges, however no keratin is identified.  Mitoses are frequent.  No lymphovascular or perineural invasion is identified.  There is a florid inflammatory infiltrate, comprising lymphocytes, plasma cells, eosinophils and neutrophils, around and amongst the tumour.  Maximum depth of invasion of the cervical tumour is 14mm out of a total cervical stromal thickness of 22mm.   
The carcinoma is 5mm from the closest deep stromal cervical margin and is 5mm from the nearest vaginal cuff margin (block B5). 
No CIN is identified in the remaining cervical surface epithelium and the endocervical columnar epithelium is unremarkable.

The described thickened areas in the body and fundic endometrium correspond to a grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  There is no myometrial invasion and no lymphovascular invasion.  The endometrial carcinoma extends into the lower segment and also focally involves the surface of the upper endocervix (block B23).  There is no cervical stromal invasion.
Stains for mismatch repair enzymes will be performed and a supplementary report issued.
The myometrium is otherwise unremarkable.
Sections of the right and left ovaries and fallopian tubes show no significant abnormality.

C.  Sections show fibroadipose tissue and one lymph node.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 

D.  Sections show three lymph nodes.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 

E.  Sections show two lymph nodes.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

F.  Sections show six lymph nodes.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

G.  Sections show six lymph nodes.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

H.  Sections show seven lymph nodes.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

I.  Sections show one lymph node.  There is no evidence of malignancy.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left external iliac lymph node:  No tumour (0/1).

B. Uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes:
1.  Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of cervix.
2.  Grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of endometrium confined to endometrium, stage 1A.

C.  Right parametrium:  No tumour (0/1).

D.  Right external iliac nodes:  No tumour (0/3).

E.  Right obturator nodes:  No tumour (0/2).

F.  Left external iliac lymph nodes:  No tumour (0/6).

G.  Left obturator lymph nodes:  No tumour (0/6).

H.  Left common iliac lymph nodes:  No tumour (0/7).

I.  Right common iliac lymph node:  No tumour (0/1). 


AMENDED REPORT (25.7.66):
B.  In the previous report, in the diagnosis line, it was stated that the stage of the cervical squamous cell carcinoma is stage 1B1.  This is incorrect because the clinical tumour size was larger than 40mm.  This staging has been removed from the pathology report.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (25.7.66):
B.  Stains for mismatch repair enzymes have been performed on the endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
MLH1:   Loss of nuclear staining.
PMS2:   Loss of nuclear staining.
MSH2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6:   Preserved nuclear staining.

Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.

 










 



