
 2601272.GRA
Crain, JERAMY ELROY
26B12722

Last edited : 12/5/2066		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Right posterior vulva + right posterior vagina + right groin node.  GORD, OP, bilat TKR.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right groin node" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue 80 x 60 x 60mm.  There is an ellipse of skin on the surface 50 x 10mm.  The skin has anarea of induration and possible scar over 15mm.  There is an open cavity within the fat which is lined by necrotic and friable cream tissue.  The cavity measures 65 x 50 x 45mm.  Theouter surface is inked black.  The specimen is serially sectioned.  The edge of the cavity appears sclerotic and infiltrative.  Areas of tumour present at the surgical margin.  Representative sections in 5 blocks.
B.  Specimen labelled "Right posterior lower vulva" consists of a 3mm punch biopsy of skin to a depth of 4mm.  AE 1 block.
C.  Specimen labelled "Right posterior lower vagina" consists of a polypoid tan mucosa covered piece of tissue 15 x 5 x 5mm.  The presumed space is inked black.  BAE.  Received with the specimen is a separate fragment of mucosa measuring 3mm in maximum dimension to a depth of 1mm.  AE 2 blocks.
Blocks:  1- larger piece bisected; 2 - fragment.  AE.  (FH/rt 10.5.66)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr H Jacobs):
A.  One (1) lymph nodeis identified.  The entire lymph node is replaced by metastatic squamous cell carcinoma.  There is extensive keratinisation.  Extranodal spread is present.
B.  Sections show vulvar skin with hyperplastic changes.  The squamous epithelium is thickened with marked hyperkeratosis.  There isno evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.
C.  Sections show vaginal skin with features of differentiated vaginal intraepithelial neoplasm (VAIN).  The area of differentiated VAIN is at least 2mm clear of the closest resection margin.  There is no evidence of invasive malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right groin node - Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma.
B.  Right posterior lower vulva - Hyperplastic changes.
C.  Right posterior lower vagina - Differentiated VAIN.

