SPR no: 69D496441P
MRN no: 6914964
Site_name: P914
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report69D49644 (69D496441P) Leith, ISSAC-FRANCIS
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
EAST WIMMERA HEALTH SERVICE - BIRCHIP HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Appendix Ca. Post peritonectomy and HIPEC.
1. Small bowel, colon, abdominal wall, and peritoneal disease.
2. Para-aortic lymph nodes.
3. Right groin lymph nodes.
4. Left groin lymph nodes.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;SMALL BOWEL, COLON, ABDOMINAL WALL, PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;. Received multiple tissue fragments with confluent serosal involvement by multiple mucinous deposits; including;

The fragments include a section of large bowel, 240x50mm, with mesentery up to 40mm. The mesentery has multiple adhesions with peritoneal strips involved by multiple mucinous deposits. An adherent segment of muscle (?diaphragm), 110x50x30mm, is identified. The mucosal surface becomes dusky and denuded towards one edge of the specimen over a length of 130mm. This denuded area spares the margin macroscopically by 20mm.

(1 LS of each resection margin; 2 serosal involvement; 3 and 4 bowel with overlying adherent skeletal muscle).

A segment of bowel, 145x50mm, with mesentery up to 50mm. The mesentery has multiple adhesions and involved by multiple minute mucinous deposits.

(5 bowel wall; 6 adhesion).

A section of small bowel, measuring 150x30mm, with mesentery up to 35mm. The outer surface of the wall and mesentery is extensively involved by multiple mucinous deposits.

(7 and 8 bowel wall and mesenteric involvement).

Multiple fibrofatty and skeletal muscle pieces of tissue covered by peritoneum, 210x160x60mm in aggregate, with extensive involvement by multiple mucinous deposits.

(9 and 10 representative). RS (M-10)

B. &amp;quot;PARA-AORTIC LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;. Multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue, 75x50x35mm. Multiple lymph nodes are identified as per block legend.

(1 ?four lymph nodes; 2 one lymph node, 18mm; 3 one lymph node, trisected; 4 one lymph node, bisected; 5 one lymph node, four TS; 6 one lymph node, serially sliced [16mm]; 7 one lymph node, serially sliced [18mm]). RS (M-7)

C. &amp;quot;RIGHT GROIN LYMPH NODES&amp;quot;. A fibrofatty piece of tissue, 60x40x30mm. Three lymph nodes are identified. The largest is 33x25x24mm with total replacement of the cut surface by cystic mucinous tumour.

(1 and 2 each of one TS of the involved lymph node; 3 one lymph node, four TS, 16mm; 4 one lymph node, 4mm). RS (M-4)

D. &amp;quot;LEFT GROIN LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;. Multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue, 50x40x25mm. Multiple lymph nodes are identified. The largest measures 25x20x20mm. The cut surface is replaced by multilocular cystic mucinous cut surface.

(1 TS largest involved lymph node; 2 ?two lymph nodes; 3 and 4 each one lymph node, serially sliced). RS (M-4/ZH 22/9/2070 cy)

MICROSCOPIC: (Dr P Eck)
A.  Sections of the first described segment of bowel show large bowel with surface adhesions and with extracellular mucin deposits in which low to intermediate grade groups and strips of tumour cells are seen.  In some areas there is infiltration within fibroblastic tissue. The mucosa of the bowel including the resection margins appear unremarkable.

Sections of the next described segment of bowel show features similar to that seen in the first described segment of bowel with mucin deposits with strips and groups of low to intermediate columnar mucinous epithelium and with infiltration within fibroblastic tissue of tumour glands including some angulated glands.  Focal involvement of adherent skeletal muscle fibres is also identified.

Sections of the next described segment of small bowel show unremarkable appearing mucosa and with surface adhesions and with mucin deposits on the serosa and mesentery with low to focally intermediate grade columnar mucinous epithelium including infiltration of fibroblastic tissue by small glands.

Sections of the separate fragments of fibrofatty tissue show extracellular mucin pools with similar features to that seen in the previous specimens including glands with columnar mucinous epithelium with low to focally intermediate grade features and with infiltration of fibroblastic tissue by small glands and groups of cells.

B.  Four lymph nodes are identified and show reactive changes only. There are also fibrofatty tissues in which deposits of extracellular mucus with strips and groups of mucinous tumour similar to that seen in specimen A are identified.

C.  Three lymph nodes are identified and one of these is almost completely replaced by tumour consisting of mucin pools with low to focally intermediate grade columnar mucinous epithelium.

D.  Five lymph nodes are identified and one of these contains mucinous tumour with mucin pools and strips of columnar mucinous epithelium.

Comment : The appearances are those of mucinous tumour including extracellular mucin pools and with epithelium that is columnar mucinous in type with low to focally intermediate grade nuclear features and with areas of infiltration within fibroblastic tissue. The appearances are consistent with mucinous adenocarcinoma (low grade).  Clinical correlation is recommended.

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  PERITONECTOMY SPECIMEN -
-CONSISTENT WITH  MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA.
B.  PARA-AORTIC LYMPH NODE -
-LYMPH NODES WITH REACTIVE CHANGES IN CONNECTIVE TISSUES WITH MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA.
C.  RIGHT GROIN LYMPH NODES -
- MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA IN ONE LYMPH NODE.
D.  LEFT GROIN LYMPH NODE -
- MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA IN ONE LYMPH NODE.
30/7/2071 ank
