SPR no: 47Z7872020
MRN no: 47978720
Site_name: GOVE DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report47Z78720 (47Z7872020) STRAITON, MICKEY Mohammad Vinny
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
KYABRAM & DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICES HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Omentum, spleen, total colectomy, small bowel, liver + capsule disease, R&amp;amp;L diaphragm, [illegible]

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;SPLEEN, OMENTUM, SMALL BOWEL, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY, APPENDIX, DIAPHRAGM, PARTIAL GASTRECTOMY, GALLBLADDER&amp;quot;                                        Multiple tissue fragments with confluent involvement by mucinous and firm white deposits, including:

A right hemicolectomy specimen including an extended segment of small bowel 970x35mm in diameter, attached a segment of right colon, caecum and ascending colon 150x60mm.  Mesentery and mesocolon are attached along the specimen to a maximum width of 40mm.

The appendix is forming a mass  80x40x40mm with mucin on its serosa extending from a perforation near the tip (inked red).  The appendiceal orifice is thickened with raised edges.  The appendix is serially sliced.  The cut surface reveals total replacement of the appendix lumen by a mucinous tumour invading the adjacent mesoappendix, perforating into the adjacent serosa (inked red). It involved the subserosal adipose tissue of the caecum and undermine the caecal mucosa.  Multiple involved lymph nodes are identified around the ileocaecal valve. The appendix is well clear of the bowel resection margins (990 mm of proximal and 130 mm of distal)  and is located within 4 mm of the mesoappendix radial surgical resection margin (inked blue).

The serosal surfaces  and mesentery of proximal small bowel and distal large bowel are extensively involved by firm white and mucinous deposits.  Some of which are totally replacing the mesentery at the ileocaecal valve.

(1 proximal and distal resection margins; 2&amp;amp;3 continuous LS appendiceal orifice; 4-6 full face one TS of mid appendix with adjacent caecal mucosa; 7&amp;amp;8 area of perforation TS appendix towards the tip; 9 LS tip; 10 tumour undermining caecal mucosa; 11&amp;amp;12 each five lymph nodes; 13 one involved lymph node; 14 ?six lymph nodes; 15 large bowel mesocolon involvement [tumour block for tissue banking]; 16 small bowel mesenteric involvement;

A segment of large bowel ( ?transverse colon) 300x75mm with mesocolon up to 55mm.  There is confluent involvement of the outer surface and the mesocolon with firm white and mucinous deposits.  No luminal tumours are identified.

(17 bowel wall; 18 mesocolon)

A left hemicolectomy specimen including sigmoid and upper rectum 350x45mm with mesocolon up to 50mm.  The distal 40mm of the specimen is below the peritoneal reflection.  The anterior peritoneal reflection including a peritoneal strip  measures 100x60mm.  There is a confluent serosal and mesocolon involvement by firm white and mucinous deposits.  No intraluminal tumours are identified.

(19 distal resection margin; 20 bowel wall involvement; 21 mesocolon);

A segment of stomach 90x50mm with a solid white mass replacing the attached fat measuring 75x50x30mm. The mass is of mucinous cut surface and abuts the radial margin.  No mucosal lesions are identified. The stapled resection margin is inked blue.  The radial resection margin is inked red.

(22 two LS of longitudinal stapled resection margin; 23 serosal involvement; 24 RS fat with adjacent radial margin;)

A spleen 110x90x45mm attached to omentum which is diffusely involved and replaced by tumour deposits 280x150x50mm (omental cake).  The spleen, overlying serosa and hilum is focally involved by mucinous and firm white deposits.  No intraparenchymal tumours is identified.

(25 splenic capsule involvement; 26 spleen hilum; 27&amp;amp;28 omental cake;)

A gallbladder 80x35mm with attached segment of liver 45x30x15mm.  The liver surface along with the gallbladder serosa is involved by a firm white mucinous tumour.  The wall is up to 3mm thick.  The mucosal surface is green and granular.  No calculi are identified.

29 cystic duct and TS neck; 30 TS body and LS fundus involvement; 31 adjacent liver involvement;

Multiple tissue fragments 280x260x60mm representing sections of ?abdominal wall/?diaphragm and smaller fragments of tumour nodules.  One of the largest fragments of abdominal wall/diaphragm measures 160x115x50mm contains fragments of attached liver parenchyma over 45x35x10mm.  The cut surface of the fragments is mucinous and firm white across the specimen.  The tumour infiltrates skeletal  muscle.

32 abdominal wall with fragments of liver involvement; 33 skeletal muscle; 34 RS of remainder of fragments).  RS (M-34/ZH 14/5/2068 nh)

MICROSCOPIC: (Dr L Minerd)
Sections of the mass in the region of appendix show almost complete replacement of the appendix by extracellular mucin pools associated with fibrous connective tissue. There are numerous cribriform glandular formations with high-grade cytology within the mucin pools and also infiltrating within fibrous connective tissue and adjacent adipose tissue and with stromal reaction. There are also signet ring cells (less than 50% of total tumour volume). Surface serosal involvement is present and the tumour infiltrates into the submucosa of the caecum at the appendiceal orifice and into the muscularis propria of the distal terminal ileum.
Seventeen lymph nodes are identified in the ileocaecal mesentery and ten of these are involved by metastatic carcinoma.
Separate extranodal deposits of mucinous carcinoma are seen within the mesentery of the small bowel and the mesocolon.
Sections of the separate segment of large bowel demonstrate deposits of mucinous adenocarcinoma on the serosal surface of the large bowel and in the mesocolon.
Sections of the left hemicolectomy specimen show surface deposits of mucinous adenocarcinoma.
Sections of the segment of stomach show serosal surface involvement and omental involvement by mucinous adenocarcinoma. The mucosa including the surgical margin appear unremarkable.
Sections of the spleen show unremarkable appearing parenchyma and with surface deposits of mucinous adenocarcinoma. The sections of the omental cake show mucinous adenocarcinoma.
Sections of the gallbladder and adjacent liver show soft tissue and liver capsular surface involvement by mucinous adenocarcinoma. The gallbladder mucosa appears unremarkable.
Sections of the separate fragments of tissue (?abdominal wall, ?diaphragm) show skeletal muscle and adjacent soft tissues with involvement by mucinous adenocarcinoma.
IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY (Block 2): CK7, CK20, and CDX-2 are positive.
MLH-1, PMS-2, MSH-2, and MSH-6 each show positive (retained) nuclear staining. This is the normal (wild-type) staining pattern.
Comment: There is mucinous adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells (signet ring cells form less than 50% tumour volume). The appendix is destroyed and replaced by mucinous tumour and this is the presumed primary site. Clinical correlation is recommended.
DIAGNOSIS:
PERITONECTOMY SPECIMEN
- MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA WITH SIGNET RING CELLS - SEE TEXT AND COMMENT.
21/4/2068 cy
