SPR no: 57N821040O
MRN no: 10502823
Site_name: PINNAROO SOLDIERS' MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportSUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (22.6.2066)

CLINICAL:
Frozen section for 73 year old female TAH BSO.  73 year old female with proven endometrial cancer.  Ovarian tumour on laparotomy.  Frozen section sent.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of an ovarian mass measuring 120 x 80 x 60mm, with intact serosa.  The cut surface has a mixed solid tan, haemorrhagic and cystic appearance.  The fallopian tube measures 100mm in length and appears unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - frozen section; 3 &amp;amp; 4 - fallopian tube; 5 to 12 - RS mass.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma, favour endometrioid differentiation.
Results phoned to Anaesthetist by Dr O Pehowich / Dr O Tamaro at 9:20am on 15/05/66.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Cervix uterus left tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, left tube and ovary weighing 202g in total.  The uterus measures 100 x 60 x 40mm with a nodular distortion on the anterior surface measuring 65 x 45 x 45mm.  The ectocervix measures 32 x 30mm.  There is a polypoid exophytic tumour, 40 x 35 x 20mm, filling most of the endometrial cavity.  There is a possible area of myometrial invasion on the posterior uterine wall.  The myometrium is up to 16mm thick.  There is a fibroid,  approximately 35mm.  The left fallopian tube measures 50 x 7 x 7mm.  The left ovary is 30 x 18 x 12mm and contains a 15mm pale tan lesion.
Blocks: 1 to 7 - full LS anterior body and cervix; 8 to 10 - full LS posterior body and cervix. including tumour with greatest depth of invasion; 11 &amp;amp; 12 - posterior uterine body with tumour; 13 - fallopian tube; 14 &amp;amp; 15 - left ovary AE.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left external iliac lymph nodes&amp;quot;, consists of multiple pieces of adipose tissue measuring 45 x 18 x 15mm in aggregate.  Three possible lymph nodes are identified measuring up to 16mm.  All nodes embedded 3 blocks.  One node per block bisected.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left common iliac lymph nodes&amp;quot;, consists of multiple pieces of fatty tissue measuring 40 x 30 x 15mm in aggregate.  Multiple lymph nodes are seen, up to 25mm.  Blocks: 1 to 3 - one node per block. 4 &amp;amp; 5 - largest lymph node.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left paraaortic lymph nodes&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of adipose tissue, 40 x 15 x 10mm, containing three lymph nodes up to 22mm.  Blocks 1 to 3 - one node each block.  AE.
F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right external lymph nodes&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of adipose, 35 x 15 x 12mm, containing one lymph node.  AE 3 blocks.

G.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Lower paraaortic lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node with attached fat measuring 25 x 20 x 8mm.  AE 2 blocks.

H.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Upper paraaortic lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node with attached fat measuring 20 x 12 x 9mm.  BAE 1 block.

I.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left high paraaortic lymph nodes&amp;quot;, consists of adipose tissue, 35 x 20 x 20mm, containing three lymph nodes up to 25mm.  Blocks 1:  two nodes; 2 &amp;amp; 3 - one lymph node.
J.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Omental biopsy&amp;#8221;, consists of a piece of omentum measuring 80 x 50 x 10mm.  The serosal surface is smooth and shiny and no nodules are identified.  RS 3 blocks.
(TO:JB/eh 15/6/67)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr O Wahlen):
A.  The sections of the 120mm right ovarian mass show a grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  The tumour shows a moderate amount of solid architecture associated with moderate cytologic atypia.  No endometriosis is identified.  The right fallopian tube shows extensive lymphovascular invasion, particularly in the fimbriae.  No tubal intraepithelial carcinoma is identified.

B.  The sections show a grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium.  This tumour shows a moderate amount of solid architecture, as well as moderate cytologic atypia.  The endometrial tumour invades 4mm through a myometrial wall thickness of 18mm.  There is very extensive lymphovascular invasion present in all sections of the myometrium.  Extensive lymphovascular invasion is also seen in the cervical wall and in the endocervical mucosa.  The tumour within vessels is associated with prominent psammomatous calcification.  Focal lymphovascular invasion is noted in the left fallopian tube, and the left fallopian tube is otherwise unremarkable.  There is a 15mm deposit of endometrioid adenocarcinoma in the left ovary, with a grade 2 appearance.  The left ovarian parenchyma adjacent to this tumour shows extensive lymphovascular invasion.  There is a leiomyoma within the myometrium.

C.  The sections of the left external iliac lymph nodes show three of three lymph nodes positive for metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma (3/3).  The tumour has mostly solid architecture, in keeping with grade 3 morphology.  The largest tumour deposit is 12mm.  Extranodal extension is seen in one lymph node.  Tumour is seen within the lumen of a muscularised blood vessel.

D.  The sections of the left common iliac external lymph nodes show four of four lymph nodes positive for metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma (4/4).  The nodal deposits have a grade 3 morphology.  The largest tumour deposit is 12mm.  Extranodal extension is seen in one lymph nodes.

E.  The sections of the left para-aortic lymph nodes show three of three lymph nodes positive for metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma (3/3).  The nodal deposits have a grade 3 morphology.  The largest tumour deposit is 8mm,  Extranodal extension is seen in two lymph nodes.  Tumour is also noted within the lumina of muscularised blood vessels.

F.  The sections of the 35mm right external lymph node show one of one lymph node positive for metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma (1/1).  Tumour replaces most of the lymph node, and shows grade 3 morphology.   No convincing extranodal extension is identified.

G.  The sections of the 25mm lower para-aortic lymph node show one of one lymph node positive for metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma (1/1).  Tumour replaces most of the lymph node and shows grade 3 morphology.  No convincing extranodal extension is identified.

H.  The sections of the upper para-aortic lymph node show one of one lymph node positive for metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma (1/1).  The tumour deposit is 11mm and shows grade 3 morphology.  No convincing extranodal extension is identified.  Tumour is seen in the lumen of a muscularised blood vessel.

I.  The sections of the left high para-aortic lymph nodes show three of three lymph nodes positive for metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma (3/3).  The nodal deposits have a grade 3 morphology.  The largest nodal deposit is 15mm.  Extranodal extension is seen in two lymph nodes.

J.  The sections of omentum show reactive mesothelial hyperplasia.  There is no evidence of malignancy.


COMMENT:
A to J.  Endometrioid adenocarcinoma with grade 2 morphology is seen in the endometrium and in the 12cm right ovarian mass, and are favoured to represent synchronous primaries.  The smaller 1.5cm grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma in the left ovary is favoured to represent metastatic tumour.  All of the lymph node metastases show morphology of grade 3 (poorly differentiated) endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  There is very extensive lymphovascular invasion with psammomatous calcification in the myometrium and cervical wall, much greater than expected for the volume of endometrial tumour present.  Although there is prominent psammomatous calcification, no convincing features of serous carcinoma are identified in any of the specimens.
Representative sections shown to Dr O Pomarico.


DIAGNOSIS:
A to J.  Uterus with cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, multiple lymph nodes (left external iliac, left common iliac, left para-aortic, right external, lower para-aortic, upper para-aortic, left high para-aortic), and omental biopsy:
-  Grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of endometrium, right ovary and left ovary (see comment).
-  Extensive lymphovascular invasion present in uterus, cervix, fallopian tubes, left ovary.
-  Total of sixteen of sixteen lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma (16/16).  Extranodal extension present.
-  Omentum negative.
MSI immunohistochemistry is in progress on both the right ovary and endometrial tumours, to follow in a supplementary report.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (21.6.2070)
MSI immunohistochemistry on both the right ovary tumour and the endometrial tumour showed similar results.
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status (blocks A9, B10)
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining

Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
