SPR no: 12Q717096U
MRN no: 0334666
Site_name: CLONCURRY MULTI-PURPOSE HEALTH SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Whipple&amp;apos;s procedure for pancreatic uncinate process tumour.  PAF, back pain.  Common hepatic artery node.


MACROSCOPIC:
A. Specimen labelled:  Whipples

Specimen Type:
Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple&amp;apos;s resection), partial pancreatectomy

Specimen dimensions:
Length of duodenum: 175mm
Length of lesser curve of stomach: 28mm
Length of greater curve of stomach: 35mm
Size of gallbladder: Not applicable
Length of bile duct: 25mm (common bile duct)
Maximum diameter of bile duct: 12mm
Size of pancreas: 75 x 55 x 32mm

Orientation: (provided on request form)
Portal vein: One suture.
Superior mesenteric artery: Two sutures.
Uncinate process: Three sutures.
Common bile/hepatic duct: No suture.

Tumour location:
Pancreatic head/uncinate process.

Tumour:
Description: Multilocular cystic lesion within the pancreatic head/uncinate process with cysts containing clear to haemorrhagic material.
Tumour Size: 24 x 24 x 20mm.

Distance of tumour to margins:
Pancreatic neck: greater than 30mm.
Common bile duct: greater than 40mm.
Portal vein bed: 7mm.
Superior mesenteric artery: 35mm.
Uncinate process: 20mm.
Proximal intestinal:  well clear.
Distal intestinal margin: well clear.

Distance of tumour to surfaces:
Anterior: 5mm.
Posterior: 10mm.

Additional gross pathologic findings: The remaining pancreas appears to have a lobulated tan  and fatty appearance.  No other lesions are identified.  The gastric and small bowel mucosa appear unremarkable.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified in the attached fat.

Specimen inked:
Anterior: Red.
Posterior: Yellow.
Portal vein: Blue.
Superior mesenteric artery: Black.
Uncinate process: Green.
Pancreatic neck margin:  Green.

Blocks: 1 - gastric margin; 2 - distal small bowel margin; 3 - common bile duct margin; 4 &amp;amp; 5 - LS through pancreatic neck margin; 6 - lymph nodes identified in attached fat; 6 to 17 - all of pancreas embedded in big blocks from superior to inferior (7 - slice one; 8 &amp;amp; 9 - slice two; 10 - slice three including ampulla (not a full face section); 11 &amp;amp; 12 - slice four; 13 &amp;amp; 14 - slice five; 15 - slice six; 16 - slice seven; 17 - slice eight).

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;SMA lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node measuring 12 x 9 x 7mm.  BAE 1 block.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Common hepatic artery lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node measuring 15 x 8 x 6mm.  BAE 1 block.  (TO:AP/ta 6/5/70)

MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr D Paravano):
A. Sections of pancreas show a benign serous cystadenoma. The lesion is thinly encapsulated, and is composed of multiple cysts of varying sizes. The cysts are lined by a single-layer of cuboidal epithelium with bland ovoid nuclei and clear cytoplasm. There is no evidence of malignancy.
Away from the lesion, the pancreas shows focal chronic pancreatitis. There are mildly dilated ducts lined by mucinous epithelium with hyperplastic changes (PanIN 1a). Focal squamous metaplasia is seen in a duct adjacent to the lesion.
The stomach shows mild chronic gastritis. No Helicobacter pylori are seen on immunohistochemistry.
SUMMARY PANCREATIC TUMOUR

Histological tumour type
Benign serous cystadenoma

Microscopic tumour sites
Uncinate process pancreas

Maximum tumour diameter
24mm

Pre-invasive lesion
Not identified

Margins:
Pancreatic neck:  &amp;gt; 30mm
Common bile duct:  &amp;gt; 40mm
Portal vein (superior mesenteric vein): 8mm (A15)
Superior mesenteric artery: 5mm (A15)
Periuncinate soft tissue: 6mm (A15)

Surfaces:
Anterior: 6mm (A11)
Posterior: 5mm (A13)

Lymph nodes:
Number found: 27
Number involved: 0

B. Sections show a lymph node with no evidence of malignancy.

C. Sections show a lymph node with no evidence of malignancy.


DIAGNOSIS
A. Whipple resection: 24mm benign serous cystadenoma, margins clear

B. SMA lymph node: no evidence of malignancy

C. Comment hepatic artery lymph node: no evidence of malignancy
