SPR no: 20T1674771
MRN no: 20716747
Site_name: MONASH MEDICAL CENTRE - CLAYTON CAMPUS
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Post breast cancer, prophylactic BSO.  Pelvic washings.  Endometrial curettings.  Right tube and ovary.  Left tube and ovary.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right fallopian tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a fallopian tube 40mm in length x 7mm in diameter.  The ovary measures 33 x 23 x 15mm.  The ovary has a unilocular cyst 7mm in maximum dimension which is filled with haemorrhage and thin haemoserous fluid.  Otherwise the ovarian cut surface is unremarkable.  The fallopian tube and ovary are AE.
Blocks: 1 and 2 - fallopian tube; 3 to 7 - ovary.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left fallopian tube + ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a fallopian tube 50mm in length x 7mm in diameter.  The ovary measures 30 x 25 x 18mm.  The cut surface of the ovary has multiple unilocular cyst ranging from 3 to 18mm in maximum dimension.  The ovary and fallopian tube are AE.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - fallopian tube; 4 to 8 - ovary.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Endometrial curettings&amp;quot;, consists of curettings 12 x 6 x 1mm.  AE 1 block.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omental biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue, 75 x 40 x 10mm.  A distinct lesion is not identified on sectioning.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.
(TO:JL/vo 22/2/66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr G Weatherall):
A and B. Both fallopian tubes and ovaries have been entirely embedded.
Sections of the fallopian tubes appear unremarkable. The ovaries shows focal endometriosis. There is no evidence of malignancy.
C. Sections show weakly proliferative endometrium.  There is no evidence of endometritis, hyperplasia or malignancy.
D. Sections of omental fat appear unremarkable. There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A and B. Right and left fallopian tubes and ovaries: no evidence of malignancy, focal endometriosis in ovaries

C. Uterine curettings: weakly proliferative endometrium.

D. Omentum: no evidence of malignancy
