SPR no: 51U163432S
MRN no: 51716343
Site_name: EUDUNDA HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 103g in total.  The uterus measures 80 x 55 x 40mm and has a smooth and shiny serosal surface on the posterior aspect with evidence of adhesions over the anterior aspect.  The cervix measures 35 x 25mm and is discoloured by surgical dye but otherwise unremarkable.  On sectioning the endometrium measures 1 to 2mm thick on a myometrium measuring 19mm thick.  No discrete lesion is identified.  No myometrial lesions are identified.  The right fallopian tube measures 45 x 7mm and the right ovary measures 24 x 15 x 10mm.  The left fallopian tube measures 48 x 7mm and the left ovary measures 24 x 13 x 10mm.  The serosal surface of each adnexa is smooth and shiny and small paratubal cysts are identified.  No lesions are seen on sectioning.  Blocks: 1 to 11 - all of anterior endomyometrium embedded (block 2 to 4 - full LS through anterior body and cervix); 12 to 21 - all of posterior endomyometrium embedded (block 15 to 17 - full LS through posterior body and cervix); 22 and 23 - right adnexa; 24 and 25 - left adnexa.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left external iliac sentinel lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node with attached fat measuring 13 x 6 x 5mm.  Quadrisected, AE 1 block.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right obturator sentinel lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node with attached fat measuring 10 x 8 x 3mm.  TAE 1 block.   (TO:AP/rs 18/11/70)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr N Bassetti):
A. Sections show focal endometrioid adenocarcinoma, grade 1, confined to the endometrium. The lesion is in the posterior body, and has a complex glandular and papillary architecture. There are confluent, irregular glands lined by stratified columnar tumour cells with mild to moderate nuclear atypia. There is no significant solid component or severe nuclear atypia present. The adjacent endometrium appears inactive. Focal progestogen effect and complex hyperplasia are present.

No lymphovascular invasion is seen.

The cervix shows no evidence of HPV effect or CIN. The ovaries and fallopian tubes show no evidence of malignancy.

Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status (A14)
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining

Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

B. Sections show a lymph node with no convincing evidence of malignancy. On AE1/3 staining there is a minute cluster of probable contaminant cells present. Shown to Dr Les Caterina.

C. Sections at multiple levels show fibroadipose tissue with no evidence of malignancy. No lymph node tissue is identified.


DIAGNOSIS
A. Uterus and cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries: endometrioid adenocarcinoma, grade 1, confined to the endometrium

B. Left external iliac sentinel lymph node: no evidence of malignancy

C. Right obturator sentinel lymph node: fibroadipose tissue with no evidence of malignancy
