SPR no: 44W713952T
MRN no: 3376234
Site_name: HAWKER MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
61 year old female oesophagectomy for adenocarcinoma.  6 weeks post neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.  Imaging demonstrated posterior gastric/peripancreatic nodes - intraoperatively noted to be overlying/involving splenic artery.  Splenic artery divided and included section in specimen.  Splenectomy performed.  Prophylactic cholecystectomy.  Separate common hepatic artery node excised.  Chemo for oesophageal Ca.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Ivor Lewis oesophagectomy&amp;quot;, consists of a distal oesophagectomy with oesophagus measuring 82 x 30mm, stomach measuring 30 x 95mm and soft tissue attached to the posterior aspect of the stomach measuring 70 x 40 x 15mm. The anterior serosal surface of the stomach appears smooth and shiny with the posterior aspect mostly smooth but appearing roughened over the attached soft tissue/posterior margin.  The paraoesophageal soft tissue is inked blue, the gastric margin inked green and the posterior soft tissue, ? margin inked black.  Numerous staples and sutures are identified along the length of oesophagus and gastric soft tissue which are removed. The region of the splenic artery is oriented by the surgical team.

Within the distal portion of the oesophagus there is an indurated area overlying the Z-line of the gastro- oesophageal junction (two thirds of which lies above the Z-line and one third below the Z-line) measuring 28 x 17mm.  The indurated area measures 24mm from the distal gastric resection margin.  Proximal to the indurated area there is an elevated firm nodule measuring 9 x 7mm.  This nodule is 58mm from the proximal resection margin with the proximal aspect of the indurated area located 66mm from the proximal resection margin. The oesophageal mucosa surrounding the indurated and nodular region appears to have a variegated white and tan mottled appearance over a length of 50mm with the proximal most portion of oesophageal mucosa having regular pale tan folds.  This macroscopically normal segment measures 26mm long.  Within the stomach there are normal rugal folds surrounding the indurated area.  No other lesions are identified.

Within the soft tissue attached to the posterior aspect of the stomach there is a firm palpable nodule measuring 35 x 22 x 18mm associated with the identified segment of splenic artery which measures 53mm long.  On sectioning through the indurated area the wall of the oesophagus appears fibrotic and thickened to a depth of 10mm. The demarcation of the muscularis propria appears obscured.  Deep and distal to the tumour within the posterior fat of the stomach there are eight possible lymph nodes ranging in size from 4 to 11mm in maximal dimension which have a uniform cream chalky cut surface.  Two of these lymph nodes are intimately associated with the splenic artery.  Multiple further lymph nodes are identified in the fat surrounding the stomach and the oesophagus.
Block 1- proximal shave of splenic artery; 2 - distal shave of splenic artery; 3-5 - anterior oesophagus in LS from proximal to distal; 6-8, 9-11 - posterior LS of oesophagus embedded from proximal to distal (red ink is on distal ends of each section); 12-19 - composite TS of oesophagus embedded from proximal to distal over two blocks, right side followed by left (red ink represents posterior join of circumference); 20-28 - LS through gastro-oesophageal junction with indurated lesion (21-24 - big blocks); 29-31 - additional lymph nodes identified in gastric fat (29 &amp;amp; 30 - lymph nodes as seen; 31 - one lymph node bisected); 32-40 - lymph nodes found in para-oesophageal soft tissue (32 - one lymph node bisected; 33 &amp;amp; 34 - one lymph node over two blocks); 35-40 - lymph nodes as seen).  Please see diagram for further blocking description.  (TO:AP/ec 20/5/66)

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Spleen&amp;quot;, consists of a spleen weighing 113g and measuring 98 x 73 x 35mm.  There is a small amount of attached fat at the hilum up to 15mm in thickness.  The hilar soft tissue resection margin is inked blue.  The splenic capsule is unremarkable.  The cut surface shows uniform beefy red splenic parenchyma with no abnormal lesions.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - sections of spleen including hilar resection margin; 4 - additional hilar fat containing possible lymph nodes.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Gallbladder&amp;quot;, consists of a partially opened gallbladder 50 x 30 x 30mm with a wall thickness of up to 3mm.  The serosal surface is smooth grey and shiny.  The mucosa is finely granular and bile stained.  No stones lymph nodes or tumours are identified.
Blocks: 1 - cystic duct margin and neck; 2 - body and fundus.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Donuts&amp;quot;, consists of two donuts of gastric mucosa, 14 x 13 x 7mm and 20 x 19 x 7mm.  The specimen is serially sectioned.  AE 3 blocks.  Blocks: 1 - smaller donut; 2 &amp;amp; 3 - larger donut.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Common hepatic lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a presumed lymph node 23 x 11 x 6mm.  BAE 1 block.  (TO:TF/rs 17/4/66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr M Fahnestock):
A.   The gastrooesophageal junction is entirely embedded and examined.  The tumour, which straddles the junction, is a focally ulcerated moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.  The tumour is present beneath  intact stratified squamous epithelium (A18), span the gastrooesophageal junction, invades cardia mucosa  and subjacent to gastric oxyntic mucosa (A22).. The tumour contiguously invades through the muscularis propria of the oesophagus (A19) and proximal stomach (A23) just entering the adventitia and subserosal connective tissue respectively. Contiguous invasion into attached fat is not seen.  Just poximal to normal cardia mucosa there is a focus of high grade glandular dysplasia and carcinoma in situ (A23).  No intestinalised Barrett&amp;apos;s mucosa is identified. The tumour is 3mm from the closest radial para-oesophageal soft tissue margin where there is minimal fat (A19). The tumour is well clear of the proximal and distal resection margins. Shaves of the proximal and distal portion of the splenic artery and associated connective tissue are free of tumour (A1 &amp;amp; A2).  There is evidence of a partial treatment response (grade 2) with areas of fibrosis, collections of foamy histiocytes and giant cells significant residual cancer remains.   No lymphovascular or perineural invasion is identified.  Intimal changes in vessels related to prior therapy are also seen.  The tumour is composed of tubular glands lined by columnar cells with  predominantly stratified  moderately pleomorphic nuclei.  There is focal tumour budding at its advancing edge (A19). Some glands show a central luminal necrosis.

While there is no contiguous invasion into the attached para-oesophageal and gastric omental fat, there are several circumscribed nodules within fat attached to the proximal stomach and focally in paraoesophageal fat which show extensive treatment effect in the form of fibrosis or necrosis.  In some of these circumscribed nodules, residual lymph node architecture is not identified, however the appearances are consistent with lymph nodes with either complete or partial response to prior treatment. Some of the larger lymph nodes are located adjacent to the splenic artery where there is focal tumour adjacent to, but not within,  the splenic artery wall (A22).   The contour of the presumed nodes showing treatment response is not well defined and it is therefor difficult to definitively state whether some foci here represent extranodal extension. In total six of thirty two (6/32) lymph nodes contain residual metastatic adenocarcinoma and all are located in fat attached to the stomach.  The extent of residual tumour in the involved node varies from a few glands at the edge of predominant necrosis (eg A23) to more significant volume of tumour (eg A31).  In additional to the six involved lymph nodes, five nodes show treatment response without evident residual tumour and twenty one nodes show no evidence of either treatment response or tumour.  The nodes showing a complete response are mostly located in fat attached to the stomach with one presumed node in paraoesophageal fat.

The stomach shows mild chronic gastritis.  No Helicobacter are seen. The oesophagus away from the tumour is unremarkable.  At the cardio-oesophageal junction there is a 1.4mm circumsricribed nodule with the muscularis propria composed of bland spindle cells with prominent perinuclear vacuolation which are arranged in short fascicles and haphazardly. No mitoses are seen. This may represent an incidental leiomyoma (immunostains pending).  Other features of treatment effect including intimal myxoid ulceration are also noted.

B.  Representative sections of the spleen show an unremarkable spleen with preserved red and white pulp areas. There is no evidence of malignancy.

C. Sections of gallbladder show mild chronic cholecystitis. There is no evidence of malignancy.

D.  The donuts are composed of oesophageal and gastric wall lined by stratified squamous epithelium and acid secreting epithelium respectively. The oesophageal epithelium is unremarkable. The gastric mucosa shows mild chronic gastritis.  No Helicobacter is seen. There is no evidence of malignancy.

E.  One (1) lymph node shows no evidence of malignancy.

SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR GASTRO-OESOPHAGEAL TUMOUR

Tumour location
Gastro-oesophageal junction

Histologic type
Adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade
Grade 2 Moderately differentiated (50% to 95% of tumour composed of glands)

Pattern of growth
Infiltrating

Maximum tumour dimension
Approximately  40mm

Depth of invasion (staged according to oesophageal carcinoma AJCC criteria by convention)

(T3)  Adventitial connective tissue (A19, A24).

Peritoneal involvement
Absent

Pleural involvement
Absent

Lymphatic and capillary space invasion
Not seen.

Vein and artery space invasion
Not seen.

Perineural invasion
Not seen.

Tumour budding
Present: (A19).

Degree of regression (AJCC)
Grade 2 (partial response) - Residual cancer with evident regression, but more than single cells or rare small groups of cancer cells

SURGICAL MARGIN STATUS
Distance of tumour to proximal margin
Well clear (at least 25mm).

Distance of carcinoma to distal margin
15mm (A24)

Distance of carcinoma to radial/circumferential margin
3mm (A19).

Donuts (Specimen D)
Not involved

LYMPH NODE STATUS
Main resection specimen
Number of lymph nodes identified: 32
Number of positive lymph nodes:  6

Separately labelled specimen(s)
Record site as per labelling: Common hepatic (specimen E).
Number of lymph nodes identified:  1
Number of positive lymph nodes: 0

N2    Metastasis in 3-6 regional lymph nodes

Other pathologies
High grade glandular dysplasia at cardiooesophageal junction
Mild chronic gastritis, no Helicobacter seen.
1.5mm benign spindle cell nodule (immunostains pending)

Distance of dysplasia to closest margin
Well clear &amp;gt; 20mm.

Immunoperoxidase stains for MSI proteins (Block  A19)
MLH1         Preserved nuclear staining.
PMS2         Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH2         Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6         Preserved nuclear staining.

Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

HER Immunohistochemistry (block A19)
2+ (weak membranous basolateral or lateral staining in &amp;gt;10% of tumour cells)

COMMENT:
If clinically indicated HER 2 FISH can be performed on request (not medicare rebatable).


DIAGNOSIS:
A, D &amp;amp; E.  Ivor Lewis oesophagectomy, donuts and common hepatic lymph node:
-   Moderately differentiated gastrooesophageal adenocarcinoma, invades into oesophageal adventitial tissue  and proximal gastric subserosa just beyond muscularis propria, no lymphovascular or perineural invasion seen, margins clear, partial response to therapy (grade 2) , six of thirty three (6/32) lymph nodes containing residual metastatic adenocarcinoma, stage ypT3 N2 MX R0.
-   High grade glandular dysplasia at gastrooesophageal junction margins clear.
-   One negative common hepatic lymph node (0/1).
B.  Spleen:  No significant abnormality.
D.  Gallbladder:  Mild chronic oesophagitis.
