SPR no: 07U300635R
MRN no: 07830063
Site_name: BARWON HEALTH - ASHLEY MANOR CAMPUS
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Uterine carcinosarcoma (high grade endometrioid and clear cell carcinoma on curettings).
2047 breast cancer (right mastectomy, lymphadenectomy, adjuvant chemo).
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus, cervix, left tube and ovary&amp;quot; received fresh, consists of a uterus, with attached cervix, left fallopian tube and left ovary, weighing 171g in total.  The uterus measures 102 x 60 x 45mm and has a lightly roughened serosal surface.  Anteriorly the area of roughening measures 32 x 20mm.  Posteriorly the area of roughening measures 50 x 45mm, and posteroinferiorly there is a pale nodule on the serosal surface, 18 x 11 x 2mm.  The ectocervix measures 40 x 40mm and has an unremarkable surface.  The uterus is bivalved in the coronal plane to reveal an exophytic pale-coloured and haemorrhagic tumour, 45mm from medial to lateral, 52mm from superior to inferior, and 36mm from anterior to posterior. The tumour invades the myometrium by up to 2mm.  The endometrium away from the tumour measures up to 3mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium is up to 12mm in maximum thickness.  Aside from the tumour, the myometrium is unremarkable.  The left fallopian tube measures 75mm in length and 5 to 12mm in diameter. A 3 x 4 x 3mm parafimbrial cyst is identified, containing clear fluid. The left ovary is 12 x 7 x 7mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.  The anterior uterine soft tissue margin is inked in blue and the posterior uterine soft tissue margin is inked in black.
Blocks: 1 to 7 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix (1 &amp;amp; 2 and 3 &amp;amp; 4 are composite sections); 8 - further section of tumour to the left of midline ? deeper invasion; 9 to 11 - further composite section of tumour to the right of midline (? deeper invasion); 12 - section to the right of midline showing ? myxoid area; 13 to 18 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix (14 &amp;amp; 15 is a composite section; 17 shows the posterior serosal nodule); 19 &amp;amp; 20 - composite section to the left of midline showing serosal nodules; 21 - further section to the left of midline showing ? deeper point of invasion; 22 - section to the right of midline showing ? deeper invasion; 23 - section to the right of midline showing deeper invasion; 24 - longitudinally bisected fimbrial end of left fallopian tube and parafimbrial cyst; 25 - representative transverse section of left fallopian tube; 26 - left ovary bisected.  Diagram produced.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right tube plus ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of tan tissue, 16g, with overall specimen dimension 65 x 40 x 30mm.  The ovary measures 30 x 11 x 6mm.  The fallopian tube measures 85mm in length and 5-12mm in diameter.  There is an area of brown discolouration on the surface of the ovary, 6 x 5 x 0.5mm.  Sectioning through the periappendageal soft tissue reveals an area of pallor, 12 x 8 x 5mm (? fibrous tissue ? other).
Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - sequentially embedded sections of ovary; 3 - longitudinally bisected fimbrial end of fallopian tube; 4 - representative transverse sections of fallopian tube; 5 - representative section of area of pallor in the soft tissue.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Posterior vaginal margin&amp;#8221;, consists of a piece of tan tissue, 22 x 16mm to a depth of 7mm.  One surface is covered by mucosa.  On the mucosa there is an area of tan discolouration, 7 x 5 x 0.5mm, which is 4mm from its nearest edge margin.  The roughened, diathermy affected area is inked in blue and the specimen is serially sectioned perpendicular to the long axis.  The specimen is serially sectioned and is sequentially embedded in block 1 to 6.  All embedded.  Diagram produced.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Right round ligament&amp;#8221;, consists of a piece of tan tissue, 12 x 11 x 3mm.  The majority of the tissue appears to be covered by serosa and a roughened diathermy affected margins are inked in blue.  The specimen is trisected to reveal pale fibrous tissue.
Blocks: 1 - one end face end; 2 - one transverse central section; 3 - the other en face end.  All embedded.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Right pararectal nodule&amp;#8221;, consists of an irregularly shaped piece of tan fibroadipose tissue, 40 x 24 x 12mm.  The outside is inked blue and the specimen is serially sectioned.  The specimen is serially transversely sectioned to reveal a pale firm nodule, 15 x 4 x 12mm in size.  Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - central transverse sections; 3 - both en face ends.  All embedded.
F.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Omentum&amp;#8221;, consists of a  piece of lobulated fatty tissue, 480 x 120 x 25mm.  A smaller separate piece of fibroadipose tissue is present, 30 x 12 x 10mm, and a piece of blood clot, 28 x 20 x 6mm.  Sectioning reveals the presence of numerous pale nodules, 3-12mm in size.  Blocks: 1 to 3 - it contains representative sections of different pale nodules.

G.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Appendix&amp;#8221;, consists of a vermiform appendix, 75mm in length and 4-6mm in diameter.  There is up to 15mm of attached mesoappendix.  The base is inked blue.  The serosal surface is unremarkable.  The appendix is unremarkable on section.
Blocks: 1 - longitudinally bisected appendix tip and two transverse sections; 2 - five transverse sections; 3 - longitudinally bisected appendix base and two transverse sections.  All embedded.
(TO:LK/eh 26/12/65)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr C Clizbe):
A.  Sections show a malignant mixed mullerian tumor of the endometrium (MMMT) with the epithelial component consisting predominantly of clear cell carcinoma with smaller components of serous and endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  The epithelial and sarcomatous components each comprise approximately 50% of the tumour.  The sarcomatous component shows possible rhabdoid differentiation however, no heterologous differentiation is seen.  The tumour forms mainly a exophytic mass within the uterine cavity invading into the myometrium to a depth of 4mm through a wall thickness of 14mm.  Focal lymphovascular invasion is seen.  The endocervical canal appears uninvolved.  Focal endometriosis is seen near the uterine serosa.
In addition, numerous deposits of adenocarcinoma are seen on the uterine serosa with a large tumour nodule in the vicinity of the cervix.  These tumour deposits shows slit-like glandular spaces and focal psammomatous calcification consistent with serous carcinoma.  The left fallopian tube shows deposits of serous carcinoma on the serosal surface however, the tube otherwise shows no significant abnormality.  The left ovary also shows deposits of serous carcinoma predominantly on the serosal surface.

B.  Sections show deposits of serous carcinoma on the fallopian tube and ovarian serosa.  The fallopian tube otherwise shows no significant abnormality.

C.  Sections of vaginal squamous mucosa show a focal area of ulceration with underlying granulation tissue.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

D.  Sections show fibromuscular connective tissue with no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

E.  Sections show deposits of serous carcinoma within fibroadipose tissue.

F.  Sections of omentum show serous carcinoma together with focal clear cell carcinoma extensively infiltrating adipose tissue.

G.  Sections show very small deposits of carcinoma within mesoappendiceal adipose tissue.  The appendix otherwise shows no significant abnormality.


DIAGNOSIS:
A - G.  Uterus, cervix, left and right fallopian tubes and ovaries, posterior vaginal margin, right round ligament, right pararectal nodule, omentum and appendix:
-   MMMT of the endometrium with clear cell, endometrioid and serous components.
-   Invasion to a depth of 4mm with a wall thickness of 14mm.
-   Lymphovascular invasion present.
-   Endocervix uninvolved.
-   Serous carcinoma involving uterine serosa, cervical soft tissue, serosa of fallopian tubes and ovaries, right pararectal nodule, and appendiceal mesoappendix.
-   Serous and clear cell carcinoma within omentum.
ADDENDUM (28/12/66):
The desmin stain for possible rhabdoid differentiation is negative.

Immunoperoxidase stains for MSI proteins (Block A9)

MLH1          Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2          Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2          Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6          Preserved nuclear staining

Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
