SPR no: 44B045827Y
MRN no: 10464448
Site_name: PORT MACQUARIE BASE HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
72 year old female pancreatic head mass with portal vein involvement on imaging.  One suture to portal vein, two sutures to SMA, three sutures to uncinate.   Liver lesion noted during operation.  ?Metastasis from tumour.
Request information sheet received:  Yes
Radiology reports received:  No
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Small liver resection ?metastasis&amp;quot;, consists of two fragments of tan tissue, 18 x 6 x 5mm and 7 x 4 x 3mm.  AE for FS in 1 block (larger fragment bisected longitudinally).

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Benign lesion, favour haemangioma.
Phone result to anaesthetist by Dr K Ziech/K Charron at 10:30 hours on 21/05/66.

B.  Specimen labelled:  Whipples

Specimen Type:
Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple&amp;apos;s resection), partial pancreatectomy

Specimen dimensions:
Small bowel:  190mm length; 52mm circumference
Size of gallbladder:  Not applicable
Wall thickness of gallbladder:  Not applicable
Calculi in gallbladder:  Not applicable
Size of and weight of spleen:  Not applicable
Length of common bile duct:  18mm length; 5mm diameter
Maximum diameter of common bile duct:  3mm
Size of pancreas:  62 x 55 x 38mm
Location of stent:  Not applicable
Length of segment of attached SMV:  29mm length; 7mm diameter
Cystic duct: 18mm length; 5mm diameter
Common hepatic duct:  5mm length; 5mm diameter

Orientation:
Portal vein:  One suture
SMA:  Two sutures
Uncinate:  Three sutures
Common bile/hepatic duct:  Oriented in person by Dr Dedios

Tumour location:
Pancreatic head

Tumour:
Description:  Definitive tumour is not identified.  The pancreas has a relatively homogenous tan/pale grey appearance.
Tumour Size:  Unclear

Distance of tumour to margins:
Pancreatic neck:  Unclear
Common bile duct:  Well clear (&amp;gt;10mm)
Portal vein bed:  Unclear
Superior mesenteric artery:  Unclear
Uncinate process:  Unclear
Gastric:  Well clear (&amp;gt;10mm)
Distal intestinal margin:  Well clear (&amp;gt;10mm)
Proximal pancreatic margin (applicable to distal pancreatectomies only):  Not applicable.

Distance of tumour to surfaces:
Anterior:  Unclear
Posterior:  Unclear

Additional gross pathologic findings:
The pancreas is sectioned axially from superior to inferior into ten approximately equal slices.

Specimen inked:
Anterior:  Yellow, and nick
Posterior:  Black
Portal vein/SMV:  Blue
Superior mesenteric artery:  Red
Uncinate process:  Green
Small bowel:  Blue
Stomach:  Blue

Blocks: 1 - stomach margin; 2 - small bowel margin; 3 - shave (3mm) pancreatic neck margin ; 4 - shave (3mm) cystic duct margin; 5 - shave (3mm) common hepatic duct margin; 6 - extrapancreatic common bile duct; 7 - proximal adherent SMV margin; 8 - distal adherent SMV margin; 9 - shave (2mm) vessels at superioanterior aspect of pancreas; 10 to 12 - peripancreatic/perigastric fibroadipose tissue, lymph nodes as seen; 13 - one lymph node, sectioned; 14 - slice one pancreas (superior); 15 - slice two pancreas; 16 - slice three pancreas; 17 - slice four pancreas; 18 - slice five pancreas; 19 - slice six pancreas; 20 - slice seven pancreas; 21 - slice eight pancreas; 22 - slice nine pancreas; 23 - slice ten pancreas (inferior).  Complete pancreas embedded.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Gallbladder&amp;quot;, consists of a gallbladder, 72 x 30 x 30mm.  The serosal surface is smooth and green/grey.  On sectioning, the wall thickness is 1mm and the mucosa is velvety green.  There are no gallstones.  Blocks: 1 - LS fundus and TS cystic duct; 2 - TS body.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Common hepatic lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node, 17 x 13 x 7mm.  Sectioned transversely.  AE 1 block.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Retroportal lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node, 14 x 12 x 7mm.  Sectioned transversely.  AE 1 block.  (TO:JB/rs 22/4/70)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr K Arruda):
A.  Paraffin sections show a focally sclerosed vascular malformation consisting of a thick and thin wall blood vessels with surrounding scar.  The adjacent liver shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

B.  Sections show moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head and neck.  There is a poorly differentiated component occupying approximately 30% of the tumour.  The tumour measures approximately 35mm across and extends into muscularis propria of the duodenum and peripancreatic soft tissue.  The tumour focally colonises the intrapancreatic common bile duct.  Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma encases the attached superior mesenteric vein circumferentially over 180 degrees on the pancreatic side of the vessel.  No tumour is seen on the free side of the vein.  The end resection margins of the superior mesenteric vein are also free of tumour.  Perineural and vascular invasion of tumour are seen at approximately 2mm from the pancreatic neck resection margin.  Further cut through sections of this margin show no tumour.  Eight (8) of the twenty-four (24) lymph nodes identified show metastatic adenocarcinoma.  The features are as follows:

Histological tumour type
Ductal adenocarcinoma

Histological grade
Grade 2:  Moderately differentiated (50% to 95% of tumour composed of glands) with a poorly differentiated component occupying approximately 30% of the tumour.

Microscopic tumour sites
Head of pancreas
Neck of pancreas

Extent of tumour invasion
Pancreas
Duodenal wall (muscularis propria)
Peripancreatic soft tissues
Bile duct (intrapancreatic common bile duct)
Intima of included SMV

Maximum tumour diameter
35mm

Lymphovascular invasion
Present

Type of vessel
Vein

Perineural invasion
Present

Perineural invasion of the superior mesenteric artery (uncinate) margin neural plexus
Not identified

Pre-invasive lesion
Present (PanIN-3)

Margins:
Pancreatic neck:  Perineural and vascular invasion within 2mm of margin, low grade PanIN at margin
Common hepatic duct:  Well clear
Portal vein (superior mesenteric vein):  0.5mm
Superior mesenteric artery:  5mm
Periuncinate soft tissue:  Well clear
Cystic duct:  Well clear
Adherent SMV ends:  Not involved.

Surfaces:
Anterior:  1mm
Posterior:  1mm

Lymph nodes:
Number found:  24
Number involved:  8

C.  Sections of the gallbladder and cystic duct lymph node shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

D.  The single (1) lymph node identified shows metastatic adenocarcinoma.

E.  The single (1) lymph node identified shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

PATHOLOGICAL STAGING (AJCC 8th Ed.)

Primary tumour category
T2		Tumour &amp;gt;2 cm and &amp;#8804;4 cm in greatest dimension

Regional lymph node category (pN)
N2		Metastasis to four or more regional lymph nodes

Distant metastasis category (pM)
MX 		Not assessable by histology


DIAGNOSIS:
A - E.  Whipples resection, liver lesion, gallbladder, common hepatic and retroportal lymph nodes:
-  Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head and neck
-  Benign liver vascular lesion
-  Nine lymph nodes positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma.
ADDENDUM (24/7/66):
Immunoperoxidase stains for MSI proteins (Block K40)

MLH1          Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2          Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2          Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6          Preserved nuclear staining

Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
