SPR no: 27O550347K
MRN no: 8474481
Site_name: CRAIGIEBURN HEALTH SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma endometrium.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus, cervix,bilateral tubes and ovaries&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix and right adnexa, weighing 48g in total, received opened.  The uterus measures 47 x 45 x 40mm and has a smooth shiny serosa.  The ectocervix measures 24 x 19mm.  Most of the endometrial cavity appears filled by tumour, 26mm in maximum dimension.  The tumour appears to invade the full thickness of the myometrium and abuts the serosa.  There is a 4mm nodule in the posterior cervical canal.  The right fallopian tube is 21mm in length and 4mm diameter.  The right ovary is 23 x 12 x 8mm and appears unremarkable.  There is soft tissue, 36 x 16 x 9mm, in the left adnexal region however no definite left ovary or left fallopian tube is identified.  Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - full LS anterior body and cervix; 3 &amp;amp; 4 - full LS anterior body and cervix; 5 &amp;amp; 6 - full LS posterior body and cervix; 7 &amp;amp; 8 - right posterior cervix; 9 - posterior uterus with deepest invasion; 10 - left posterior cervix; 11 - right fimbria; 12 - right fallopian tube and right ovary; 13 - RS left para-adnexal tissue.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right pelvic lymph nodes&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of adipose tissue, 59 x 39 x 15mm, containing multiple lymph nodes.  The largest node is 35mm.  Blocks: 1 - multiple lymph nodes; 2 to 4 - one lymph node per block; 5 &amp;amp; 6 - largest lymph node; 7 to 9 - remainder.  AE.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left pelvic lymph nodes&amp;quot;, consists of two pieces of adipose tissue, 10 and 43mm.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified.  Blocks: 1 - multiple lymph nodes; 2 &amp;amp; 3 - one lymph node each block; 4 &amp;amp; 5 - one lymph node; 6 &amp;amp; 7 - remainder.  AE.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left vaginal biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of a biopsy, 6mm.  AE 1 block.
(TO:JR/ta 21/9/67)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr H Urrabazo):
A.  The sections show a grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium.  Many of the tumour cells show marked cytologic atypia.  No significant solid architecture is seen.  The tumour invades 28.9mm through a myometrial wall thickness of 29mm.  No serosal involvement is identified.  Tumour invades both the anterior and posterior cervical stroma (both endocervical and ectocervical), with a greatest cervical depth of invasion of 5mm through a cervical wall thickness of 7mm.  A single focus of lymphovascular invasion is present in a vessel located 0.8mm from the ectocervical margin.  The right fallopian tube and right ovary show no significant abnormality.  The left fallopian tube and left ovary are not identified.

Best tissue block for further studies:  A6.

B.  The sections of the right pelvic lymph nodes show twelve negative lymph nodes (0/12).  There is no evidence of malignancy.

C.  The sections of the left pelvic lymph node show eleven negative lymph nodes (0/11).  There is no evidence of malignancy.

D.  The left vaginal biopsy shows polypoid stroma surfaced by normal squamous epithelium, suggestive of a fibroepithelial polyp.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

DIAGNOSIS:
A to C.  Uterus with cervix, right fallopian tube and ovary, right and left pelvic lymph nodes:
-  Grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium.
-  Tumour invades outer half of myometrium.
-  Tumour invades cervical stroma.
-  Right fallopian tube and ovary negative.
-  Total of twenty-three negative lymph nodes (0/23).
D.  Left vaginal biopsy:  No evidence of malignancy.
