SPR no: 14T251606W
MRN no: 14725160
Site_name: GLADSTONE HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report
14T25160 (14T251606W) Vele, CRAIG
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
QUORN HEALTH SERVICES HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Surface of L colon. Known colorectal cancer - peritonectomy.
Frozen section. Peritonectomy. Colorectal Ca. - Bilateral diaphragm.- Spleen. - Omentum. - Uterus.- Ovaries.- Rectum.- Abdominal wall mass.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;SURFACE LEFT COLON&amp;quot;. A strip of tissue, measuring 20x15x5mm. Two TS taken for frozen section.

F/S: &amp;quot;Fibroadipose tissue, benign. No evidence of malignancy&amp;quot; per phone to Prof. Aurelio via the anaethestist on 18/10/2067 at 2:45pm by Dr F. Schettler.

(1 frozen section; 2 remainder tissue). AE (M-2)

B. &amp;quot;BILATERAL DIAPHRAGM, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, RECTUM, UTERUS, OVARIES&amp;quot;. Received within the same specimen jar multiple tissue fragments with confluent involvement of the serosal surfaces by white tumour deposits, including:

An en-block specimen includes rectum, measuring 175x50mm, with mesocolon and mesentery up to 50mm attached to a uterus, measuring 65x35x35mm with a right fallopian tube 50x6mm; right ovary 20x15x10mm; left fallopian tube 75x10mm and left ovary 22x10x10mm. The anterior cervical margin is inked blue, the posterior is inked black. Endometrium is up to 3mm thick. The myometrium is 18mm thick. One calcified fibroid is identified at the anterior body, measuring 15x15x10mm. Attached anteriorly is part of peritoneal strip, measuring 175x80x30mm. Multiple deposits are identified on the overlying peritoneal strip, measuring 5-20mm. Similar deposits are identified on the pouch of douglas peritoneum and overlying the bowel serosa. The bowel lumen is unremarkable. There are no polyps or tumours are identified. The cut surface of both ovaries and tubes is unremarkable.

(1-4 bowel [1 proximal margin; 2 distal margin; 3 serosal involvement; 4 ?five lymph nodes; 5 right tube; 6 right ovary; 7 left tube; 8 left ovary; 9 anterior cervix; 10 posterior cervix; 11 anterior body; 12 posterior body; 13 fundus; 14 pouch of douglas involvement; 15 uterine surface involvement; 16 peritoneal deposits).

Segment of stomach measuring 10x40mm with attached mesentery up to 50mm. The entire specimen is covered by peritoneum. It has one stapled resection margin The overlying serosa has multiple deposits with firm white cut surface. An anastomosis line is identified 10 mm of the stabled margin. No intraluminal polyps are identified. One of the serosal deposits has infiltrative edge and invading into the muscle wall with no mucosal involvement.

(17 resection margin; 18 and 19 serosal deposits).

A spleen weighing 110g and measuring 105x70x40mm. The peritoneal surface of the hilum has multiple firm white deposits. The largest measuring 8mm in maximum diameter. The remainder surface has surface adhesion.

(20 spleen peripheral with surface adhesion; 21 hilar deposit).

Multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue consistent with omentum, measuring 230x195x60mm. The outer surface is solid and firm (omental cake) involving 70% of the submitted omentum. The cut surface is firm white with areas of necrosis.

(22-24 omental involvement [23 tumour block for tissue banking]).

Received multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue with adherent skeletal muscle consistent with diaphragm strip. Numerous firm white deposits are identified on the outer surface, measuring 4-7mm in maximum diameter. Serially slicing reveals a deposit, 20x15x10mm, infiltrating the fatty tissue and the overlying muscle.

(25 and 26 representative diaphragm involvement). RS (M-26)

C. &amp;quot;ABDOMINAL WALL MASS&amp;quot;. A fibrofatty piece of tissue, measuring 50x40x35mm. One surface is partially smooth (?peritoneal covering) with adjacent skeletal muscle strips. The possible margins are inked blue. The cut surface reveals a firm white stellate mass with infiltrative borders, measuring 40x30x25mm, invading the adjacent adipose tissue and located within 1mm of the nearest inked resection margin. Central areas of necrosis are identified.

(1-3 continuous one TS across the specimen; 4 and 5 each one LS of the peripheral margin). RS (5-5/ZH 19/11/2071 cy)

MICROSCOPIC: (Dr. F Jurich)
A.  Sections show fragments of fibrofatty tissue with peritoneal surface.  There is fibrous scarring and vascular dilatation.  No evidence of malignancy.

B.  Sections from the large bowel segment shows metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma on the serosal surface in keeping with colorectal origin.  No involvement of the serosal surface.  Metastatic carcinoma is seen in one out of five lymph nodes identified.

The right ovary shows multiple epithelial inclusion cysts, some of which show calcification in the wall.  The right fallopian tube shows a paratubal cyst.  The left ovary shows metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma.  The left fallopian tube appears unremarkable.

Sections of cervix show multiple Nabothian cysts. The endometrium is inactive with cystic dilatation.  Focal adenomyosis is identified.  In the anterior myometrium, there is a focus of metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma.  In the Pouch of Douglas and peritoneum, there is extensive involvement by adenocarcinoma.

Sections of stomach show mild chronic inflammation.  There is metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma involving the serosa and perigastric fat. Focal lymphovascular invasion is identified.  There is tumour on the free serosal surface.  The small bowel resection margins appear unremarkable.

Sections of spleen show serosal haemorrhage.  Metastatic carcinoma is identified on the serosal surface of the spleen.

Multiple deposits of colorectal adenocarcinoma are seen on the omental surface. The tumour shows focal mucinous differentiation and small locules of mucin are seen within the carcinoma.

Sections of the diaphragm also show involvement by carcinoma.  There is tumour within the soft tissue adjacent to the liver.

C.  Sections show fibrofatty tissue in which there is large tumour deposit of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in keeping with colorectal origin.  There is tumour necrosis. Carcinoma is 1.5mm from the soft tissue edge of the specimen.

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  SURFACE LEFT COLON, BILATERAL DIAPHRAGM, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, RECTUM, UTERUS, OVARIES -
-METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA FROM COLORECTAL ORIGIN INVOLVING RECTUM, LEFT OVARY, UTERUS, POUCH OF DOUGLAS, SPLEEN, DIAPHRAGM, GASTRIC SEROSA, PERITONEUM AND OMENTUM.
-METASTATIC CARCINOMA IN ONE OUT OF FIVE LYMPH NODES.
C.  ABDOMINAL WALL MASS -
-METASTATIC COLORECTAL CARCINOMA.
24/10/2067 ank
