SPR no: 14E632734O
MRN no: 9944328
Site_name: CARNARVON HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report14E63273 (14E632734O) OFORI, LOYCE DON
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
TUMBY BAY HOSPITAL AND SUTHERLAND HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
H/O appendiceal adenocarcinoma and peritonectomy, midline wound nodule frozen section.  Appendiceal adenocarcinoma, past peritonectomy and HIPEC.  Right hemicolectomy and peritoneal disease.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;WOUND&amp;quot;.  A firm fibrous tissue 25x9x8mm with cribriform appearance.  2 xTS for frozen section.

F/S:  &amp;quot;Fibrous tissue, no tumour in representative sections&amp;quot;.  Results phoned to theater 10 on 22/10/2067 by Dr. E. Chapple.

(1  frozen section tissue; 2  rest of specimen).  AE (M-2).

B.  &amp;quot;RE-DO RIGHT HEMI PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;.  A right hemicolectomy specimen consisting of small bowel 60mm in length, 30mm in diameter attached to large bowel 70mm in length, 50mm in diameter with mesenteric fat, 90x50x30mm.  The small bowel is attached via staples to the large bowel as a side-to-side anastomosis.  The serosa is covered in fibrous tissue.  At the blind end of the small bowel is a firm plaque-like area, 15x15x8mm ?scar or recurrent disease.  A few lymph nodes are noted in the mesenteric fat.  Please see block for description.  A separate piece of small bowel 80mm in length, 25mm in diameter with mesentery 20mm wide appears covered with adhesions.  Within the mesenteric fat are firm fibrous nodules up to 8mm in size.  No lesion seen within the mucosa of right hemicolectomy specimen or the second piece of small bowel.  Also present separately are five pieces of fatty and fibrous tissue ranging from 10mm to 30mm containing further metastatic deposits up to 15mm.

(1  right hemicolectomy specimen proximal and distal margin; 2  anastomotic site; 3&amp;amp;4  blind end of small bowel with fibrous area ?recurrent disease; 5  vascular pedicle; 6  bisected lymph node; 7  one lymph node and firm area within the vascular pedicle; 8  further section of the firm area within vascular pedicle measuring up to 15mm in dimension; 9  separate piece of small bowel margins LS; 10  small bowel adhesions; 11 small bowel with metastatic deposit in mesentery; 12&amp;amp;13  separate pieces of peritoneal tissue; 14&amp;amp;15  largest deposit in peritoneal tissue [15  tumour bank block]).  RS (M-15/JC 26/10/2069 km).

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr E Petralia)
A.  The sections show dense fibrous connective tissue in which focal suture granulomas and patchy chronic inflammation are seen.  Negative for malignancy.
B.  Sections of the hemicolectomy specimen show normal appearing large and small bowel mucosa and the surgical resection margins are unremarkable.  Infiltrating within the adventitial connective tissues of the mesentery is poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells that infiltrates into the wall of the small bowel to reach the submucosa. Several further areas of adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells including some areas with extracellular mucin pools are identified in the soft tissues of the mesentery and vascular  pedicle. There is prominent perineural invasion within the mesenteric soft tissues.
Three lymph nodes are identified and one shows metastatic adenocarcinoma.
Sections of the separate segment of small bowel show normal appearing small bowel mucosa and wall and with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells including some areas with extracellular mucin pools present within the mesentery.
Sections of the separate pieces of peritoneal tissue show infiltration by poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells.
Clinical correlation is recommended.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  WOUND -
-FIBROSIS.
B.  REDO RIGHT HEMI AND PERITONEAL DISEASE -
-POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA WITH SIGNET RING CELLS.
29/10/2069 ank
