SPR no: 15Y245240X
MRN no: 2252676
Site_name: LOGAN HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Interval debulking.  Gynae CA (serous adenoma) on chemotherapy. Adenocarcinoma - likely gynae primary.  x3 cycles carbo-taxol.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Ometal biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of nodular fatty tissue measuring 65 x 45 x 7mm.  Two representative sections taken for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section one; 2 - frozen section two; 3 to 5 - RS.  RS 5 blocks.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma favour primary gynae tract origin.
Phone results to Anaesthetist by Dr D Beall and Dr D Trotz on 24/04/2069 at 9:49am.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Cervix uterus small bowel pelvic peritoneum bilateral tubes and ovaries&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovary and attached segment of small bowel weighing 199 grams in total.  The uterus measures 74 x 45 x 45mm and has a mostly smooth shiny serosa surface.  There is an attached small bowel segment at the anterior fundus of the uterus.  The ectocervix measures 40 x 40mm and has an unremarkable surface.  The segment of small bowel measures 160mm in length and a circumference of 30mm.  On sectioning of the uterus the endometrial measures less than 1mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 16mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium contains three fibroids ranging from 3mm to 10mm in maximum diameter.  The small bowel segment one margin inked blue and opposite margin inked black.  The serosa surface of the small bowel segment is smooth, haemorrhagic in colour and some focal fibrinopurulent exudate towards the adhesion site at the anterior fundus of the uterus.  The mucosa surface of the small bowel section is tan with normal mucosal fold.  No polyp of diverticulum is identified macroscopically.  The bowel segment and the adhesed anterior uterus is serially sliced from left to right.  The cut surface shows an area of adhesion of the bowel segment to the anterior uterine body.  The right fallopian tube measures 65mm in length and up to 7mm in maximum diameter.  The left ovary measures 33 x 17 x 12mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.  The left fallopian tube measures 45mm in length and 6mm in maximum diameter.  The left ovary measures 24 x 20 x 8mm.  There is a peri-fimbria cyst of 8mm in diameter on the left fallopian tube.  The left ovary has an unremarkable cut surface.  Blocks: 1 to 3 - full LS of posterior body and cervix; 4 - TS of blue margin of small bowel; 5 - TS of black margin of small bowel; 6 to 10 - full LS of anterior body and cervix (blocks 6 and 7 - adhesion of small bowel to anterior body); 11 - right fallopian tube (fimbria head bisected and one TS); 12 - RS of right ovary; 13 - left fallopian tube (fimbria head bisected and one mid TS); 14 - one mid TS of left fallopian tube with peri-fimbria cyst; 15 - RS of left ovary. RS 15 blocks.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right hemicolectomy with omentum&amp;quot;, consists of a right hemicolectomy, a segment of small bowel 170mm in length and a circumference of 40mm, and caecum of 75mm in length and a circumference of 100mm.  The appendix is not identified macroscopically.  The proximal margin is inked blue.  The distal margin is inked black. The serosa surface of the bowel segment is tan brown in colour, smooth, and partially covered by mesocolic fat up to 50mm in width.  The serosa surface of the caecum has a nodular tan coloured roughened surface.  The mucosa surface of the bowel segment is tan coloured with normal mucosal fold.  No perforation, polyp or diverticulum is identified.  No lesion is identified.  There is an attached brown coloured fibrotic omentum measuring 200 x 150 x 20mm.  Multiple possible lymph nodes identified.  Blocks; 1 - TS of proximal margin (blue margin); 2 - TS of distal margin (black margin); 3 - RS of small bowel; 4 - RS of caecum; 5 to 7 - RS of omentum; 8 to 10 - multiple lymph nodes (block 8 - apical lymph nodes).  RS 10 blocks.  (TO:BL/vo 20/4/70)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Y Cumpton):
A.  Sections confirm the frozen section diagnosis of malignant epithelioid tumour favouring adenocarcinoma.

B.  The cervix shows dilated endocervical glands and mild chronic cervicitis. There is no evidence of epithelial dysplasia in the squamous or glandular epithelium.  The outer wall of the cervix shows presence of tumour clusters similar to that seen in the omentum. The endometrium shows weakly proliferative and non-reactive glands with focal tubular metaplasia.  No evidence of chronic inflammation, hyperplasia or atypia.  The serosal surface of the uterus shows multiple tumour clusters with focal extension into the outer third of the myometrium.  The sections taken at the adhesion with small intestine show presence of tumour clusters associated with fibroblastic proliferation and haemorrhage.  The tumour is present at both resection margins of the small bowel segment.  Small bowel mucosa is unremarkable.  Right ovary shows presence of tumour clusters on the surface and extension into the cortical stroma, otherwise ovarian architecture is maintained.  Right tube shows presence of tumour on the surface and focal areas of epithelial dysplasia within the fimbrial tubal epithelium.  Left ovary shows surface tumour with extension into the cortical stroma.  The ovarian architecture is maintained.  Left tube shows significant area of epithelial high grade dysplasia with similar morphological features to the tumour. There is also a suspicious focus of infiltration into the underlying tubal stroma.  Sections from the mid fallopian tube also shows focal epithelial dysplastic changes within the epithelium.

C.  The omental tissue shows large areas of tumour characterised by solid sheets of malignant epithelioid cells and peripheral papillary architecture.  The cells are large, contain deep eosinophilic cytoplasm and large vesicular nuclei with prominent nucleoli with frequent mitoses. The papillary areas show tumour cells arranged around fibrovascular cores.  Psammoma bodies are not a feature.  There is also focal squamoid-like areas.  Suspicious lymphovascular invasion present.  The proximal resection margin of the small bowel shows presence of tumour within the serosa.  Random sections of the caecum also shows presence of tumour within the serosa.  Distal resection margin of the specimen appears free of tumour.  Ten (10) lymph nodes are identified from the mesentery are negative for metastasis.
Immunohistochemistry ; positive with PAX,8,EMA, BERep4
Negative with Calretinin,D240

DIAGNOSIS:
A.   Frozen section omental biopsy:  High grade serous papillary adenocarcinoma.
B.   Cervix, uterus, small bowel and bilateral tubes and ovaries:  Tumour is present on the uterine serosa with adhesion to small bowel serosa.  There is also tumour present multifocally within the outer wall of the cervix, uterus ,both ovarian surfaces and infiltration into the ovarian cortical stroma and surfaces of  both fallopian tubes.  The left fallopian tube shows high grade dysplastic epithelial change amounting to carcinoma insitu  with suspicious stromal invasion indicating possible primary site of origin.  Both fallopian tubes shows multifocal areas of epithelial dysplasia of varying degree.
C. Right hemicolectomy and omentum :  High grade serous papillary carcinoma in omentum
with tumour present within serosa of caecum and small bowel
