SPR no: 39T390707K
MRN no: 397390
Site_name: MALLEE TRACK HEALTH AND COMMUNITY SERVICE
Facility_id: MR
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Proximal gastric Ca. No neoadjuvant treatment.  Small wedge of liver on where stomach was stitched on to segment 2.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Gastrectomy&amp;quot;, consists of a gastrectomy, 170mm long x up to 150mm in open circumference.  The lesser curvature is 140mm and greater curvature is 230mm long.  The attached lesser curvature fat is 170 x 40 x 25mm.  The attached greater curvature fat is 240 x 70 x 40mm which is contiguous with an attached piece of omentum, 490 x 150 x 30mm.
Located 45mm from the proximal margin and 80mm from the distal margin, is an ulcerated tumour with raised edges, 50 x 50mm, present on the anterior wall of the stomach. Corresponding to this tumour, on the serosal surface is a 20 x 15 x 5mm piece of attached liver.  On sectioning, the tumour invades the stomach wall however, does not appear to invade to the attached piece of liver or the serosal surface.  A 14mm lymph node, immediately adjacent to tumour is noted. No other mass or lesion is seen. Specimen photographed. The proximal resection margin is inked black and the distal resection margin is inked blue. The resection margin of the attached piece of liver is inked green.
Blocks: 1 and 2 - LS of proximal margin; 3 and 4 - LS of distal margin; 5 - tumour and attached piece of liver to the surface; 6 - another section showing tumour with attached piece of liver; 7 to 10 - tumour and deepest invasion; 11 - tumour and interface with normal bowel for MSI testing;
12 - closest lymph node to tumour; 13 - random stomach; 14 to 16 - lymph nodes from proximal stomach (five possible lymph nodes in each of blocks 14 and 15 and four possible lymph nodes in 16); 17 - five possible lymph nodes from lesser curvature fat; 18 to 21 - lymph nodes from greater curvature (18 - four possible lymph nodes; 19 - lymph node bisected; 20 - lymph node bisected; 21 - two possible lymph nodes); 22 - haemorrhagic area within the omentum; 23 to 24 - further RS of the omentum.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Donuts&amp;quot;, consists of two donuts, respectively 16 x 16 x 9mm and 21 x 20 x 7mm. The smaller is inked blue and the larger inked black. No mass or lesion is seen. AE. Blocks: 1 and 2 - larger donut; 3 - smaller donut.  (TO:KN/vo 7/7/72)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr K Siebenberg):
A.  Sections show moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the anterior wall of the stomach arising on a background of intestinal metaplasia.  Extensive lymphovascular and perineural invasion is present.  Tumour penetrates muscularis propria but does not involve the serosal surface.  There is no extension into the attached liver.  Four (4) of the thirty eight (38) lymph nodes identified contain adenocarcinoma (one by direst spread).  Tumour is well clear of the proximal and distal margins.

B.  The proximal and distal donuts show no significant abnormality.  No Barrett&amp;#8217;s mucosa is seen.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

The overall features are as follows:

Tumour site:   Body, anterior wall

WHO histological tumour type:  Tubular and poorly cohesive adenocarcinoma

Lauren histological tumour type:  Mixed

Growth pattern:  Infiltrating

Maximal dimension of tumour:  50mm

Local invasion (pT):
T3	Tumour penetrates subserosal connective tissue without invasion of visceral peritoneum or adjacent structures.

Serosal surface involvement:  Absent

Vascular space invasion:
Small vessels (lymphatic and capillary):  Present
Large vessels (vein and artery):  Absent

Perineural growth:  Present

Degree of regression after preoperative chemoradiation:  Not applicable

Her2 status:  Negative

Distance of tumour from margins:
From proximal:  Well clear
From distal:  Well clear
From radial/circumferential (proximal/cardia tumours):  Not applicable

Number of involved regional nodes/total number of region nodes (pN):
Number of lymph nodes present:  38
Number of lymph nodes involved:  4 (1 by direct spread)

N2	Metastasis in 3 - 6 regional lymph nodes

Metastatic sites (pM):
MX	Cannot be assessed histologically

Other pathologies:
Gastritis:  Absent
Helicobacter infection:  Absent
Intestinal metaplasia:  Present
Gastric polyps:  Absent
Barrett&amp;#8217;s mucosa:  Absent

Other:  The proximal and distal donuts show no significant abnormality.

Immunoperoxidase stains for MSI proteins (Block A6)

MLH1          Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2          Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2          Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6          Preserved nuclear staining

Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.


DIAGNOSIS:
A &amp;amp; B.  Gastrectomy and donuts:
- Moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the gastric body, margins clear
- Four lymph nodes positive for adenocarcinoma
- pT3    N2    MX
