SPR no: 29U131960U
MRN no: 29713196
Site_name: BANKSTOWN-LIDCOMBE HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Sigmoid colon Ca.


MACROSCOPIC - STRUCTURED REPORT
Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Sigmoid colon&amp;quot;, and consists of

Specimen
Specimen length: 275mm
Site of anterior peritoneal reflection: below distal margin of specimen
Thickness of mesocolon: 75mm
Thickness of mesorectum: Not applicable

Tumour
Location: Sigmoid colon
Relation to anterior peritoneal reflection: Above
Description: 40 x 40mm tan tumour with a granulated and exudative surface and raised serpiginous boarders. The tumour occupies approximately thirty percent of the bowel circumference and measures 5mm thick, with focal extension into the subserosal fat. The tumour extends to within 1mm of the serosal surface.
Maximum tumour diameter: 40mm
Perforation:  Absent
Appearance of serosa overlying tumour: Mildly indurated
Distance of tumour to cut ends: 50mm from blue inked cut end, 220 from black inked cut end
Distance of tumour to circumferential margin: Well clear

Other
Polyps: Nil
Adherent structures: Nil
Inked margins: Cut end differentially inked blue and black


Blocks
1 and 2 - LS cut ends; 3 to 6- tumour deepest microscopic invasion; 7 - tumour and adjacent normal bowel; 8 - shave of apical margin; 9 to 12 - possible lymph nodes as seen; 13 to 17 - one possible lymph node per block bisected; 18 - TS one possible lymph node; 19 - one possible lymph node. MSI IHC requested on block 7   (TO:BF/vo 19/2/70)


MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr G Donten)
The 40mm sigmoid colon tumour is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. A synoptic report for colorectal carcinoma follows:

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS

Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate

Local invasion
T3    Beyond muscularis propria

Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:  Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:   Not involved

Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Twenty three.
Number of involved lymph nodes: Two (2/23).

N1b   Metastases in 2 to 3 regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Present.
Extramural venous invasion: Present (block 5)

Perineural invasion
Present

Tumour budding
Bd2 (intermediate):  5 - 9 buds per 0.785 sq mm

Histologically confirmed distant metastases
MX    Cannot be assessed histologically

Background abnormalities/other comments
Nil significant

Residual tumour status
R0    No residual tumour

Response to neoadjuvant therapy
Not applicable

Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status
MLH1    Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2    Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2    Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6    Preserved nuclear staining

Comment:  Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

BRAF V600E immunohistochemistry
Not performed

Reserve block for molecular studies:  7
Reserve block for tumour banking:  6

Summary - AJCC 8th Edition
Adenocarcinoma NOS
T3  N1b MX R0


DIAGNOSIS:
Sigmoid colon:
- 40mm moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, T3N1bMxR0.
- Lymphovascular space invasion, perineural invasion and extramural venous invasion.
- Carcinoma present in 2 of 23 lymph nodes (2/23).
- MSI markers low risk of microsatellite instability.
