SPR no: 45I181589O
MRN no: 4531815
Site_name: MOUNT DRUITT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
72 year old male imaging for unintentional weight loss ? pancreatic head/duodenal mass.  No distant metastases ? malignancy ? margins.  Pancreaticoduodenectomy.
Request information sheet received:  Yes
Radiology reports received:  No


MACROSCOPIC:

Specimen labelled:  Whipples

Specimen Type:
Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple&amp;apos;s resection), partial pancreatectomy

Specimen dimensions:
Length of duodenum:  215mm
Length of stomach:  35mm (and up to 50mm in diameter)
Size of gallbladder:  75 x 37 x 35mm
Wall thickness of gallbladder: 1mm
Calculi in gallbladder:  Absent
Size of and weight of spleen:  Not applicable
Length of bile duct:  2mm (common hepatic bile duct)
Maximum diameter of bile duct: 5mm
Size of pancreas:  78 x 57 x 53mm
Location of stent:  Not applicable
Length of segment of vessels present in resection specimen:  Not applicable

Orientation:
Portal vein:  Single suture
Superior mesenteric artery:  Double suture
Uncinate process:  Triple suture
Common bile/hepatic duct:  Sutured
Other: None

Tumour location:
Pancreatic head

Tumour:
Description:  Well circumscribed tumour within the anterior portion of the head of pancreas, abutting the adjacent duodenal wall. The cut surface has a uniform pale tan appearance with central areas of haemorrhage and possible necrosis.
Tumour Size:
Greatest dimension: 35mm
Additional dimensions: 30 x 25mm

Distance of tumour to margins:
Pancreatic neck:  8mm (slice 3)
Common bile duct:  Well clear
Portal vein bed:  2mm (slice 5 and 6)
Superior mesenteric artery:  20mm (slice 7)
Uncinate process:  Well clear
Proximal intestinal/gastric:  Well clear
Distal intestinal margin:  Well clear

Distance of tumour to surfaces:
Anterior: 1mm (slice 6 and 7)
Posterior: Well clear, greater than 35mm

Additional gross pathologic findings:
The bowel mucosa has regular tan folds.  The ampulla appears unremarkable.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified within the attached peripancreatic fat.  A separate piece of omental fat is provided measuring 230 x 120 x 30mm, with no masses seen.

Specimen inked:
Anterior:  Black, with nick
Posterior:  Black
Portal vein:  Blue
Superior mesenteric artery:  Red
Uncinate process:  Green

Blocks:
1 -  Proximal gastric margin; 2 - distal small bowel margin; 3 - Common hepatic bile duct margin; 4 &amp;amp; 5 - anterior and posterior pancreatic neck margin shave; 6 &amp;amp; 7 - LS superior portion of tumour with adjacent overlying gastric mucosa; 8 to 20 - big blocks (8 &amp;amp; 9 slice two, superior pancreas; 10 &amp;amp; 11 - slice three; 12 &amp;amp; 13- slice four; 14 &amp;amp; 15 - slice five; 16 &amp;amp; 17 - slice six; 18 - slice seven; 19 - slice eight; 20 - slice ten, inferior pancreas); 21 - LS through uncinate margin; 22 to 24 - representative omental fat; 25 - gallbladder (cystic duct fundus and body).  See diagram. (TO:AP/eh 17/2/67)

MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Lasalle):
Sections show a 30mm moderately differentiated adenosquamous carcinoma predominantly situated within adipose tissue on the anterior aspect of the head of the pancreas.  No lymphovascular or perineural invasion is seen.  Tumour invades into the duodenal wall and focally ulcerates the mucosa.  In many areas the tumour deposit appears separate to the pancreas however, focally the tumour abuts and possibly involves the anterior aspect of the head of the pancreas.  The intrapancreatic common bile duct and ampulla show no abnormality.  The tumour shows positive staining with CK7 and CK19.  The CK20, CDX2, GATA3, PSA, TTF-1 and PAX 8 stains are negative.  In view of the immunohistochemical profile and lack of any other reported primary malignancies, the tumour is probably of pancreatic origin although the location and  appearances are unusual.  The margins appear clear of tumour.  The 26 lymph nodes identified show no significant abnormality.  The overall features are as follows:

Histological tumour type
Adenosquamous carcinoma.

Histological grade
Grade 2: Moderately differentiated (50% to 95% of tumour composed of glands)

Microscopic tumour sites
Head of pancreas

Extent of tumour invasion
Duodenal wall
Peripancreatic soft tissues

Maximum tumour diameter
30mm

Lymphovascular invasion
Not identified

Perineural invasion
Not identified

Perineural invasion of the superior mesenteric artery (uncinate) margin neural plexus
Not identified

Pre-invasive lesion
Present:  PanIN1a at neck margin

Margins:
Pancreatic neck:  10mm
Common hepatic duct:  Well clear
Portal vein (superior mesenteric vein):  5mm
Superior mesenteric artery:  Well clear
Periuncinate soft tissue:  Well clear

Surfaces:
Anterior:  1mm
Posterior:  Well clear

Lymph nodes:
Number found:  26
Number involved:  0

Other pathologies:
Gallbladder shows no significant abnormality.

PATHOLOGICAL STAGING (AJCC 8th Ed.)

Primary tumour category (pT)
T2	Tumour &amp;gt;2 cm and &amp;#8804;4 cm in greatest dimension

Regional lymph node category (pN)
N0	No regional lymph node metastasis

Distant metastasis category (pM)
MX 	Not assessable by histology


DIAGNOSIS:
Whipples:
- 30mm adenosquamous carcinoma, margins clear
- 26 negative lymph nodes
