SPR no: 68B0547970
MRN no: 10544899
Site_name: BELMONT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report68B05479 (68B0547970) SHULTIS, IRVIN Harrison LOWELL
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
THEODORE HOSPITAL AND SUTHERLAND HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Appendix tumour with peritoneal mets.  Omentum, peritoneum, gallbladder, spleen, right hemicolectomy, small bowel resection, anterior resection.

Previous history obtained.  There is previous appendicectomy with LAMN (DHM pathology).  Report scanned.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;DIAPHRAGM, RIGHT COLON, LIVER STRIP, VAGINAL VAULT, GALLBLADDER, SPLEEN, SMALL BOWEL, RECTUM&amp;quot;.  Received in one specimen jar multiple tissue fragments with confluent involvement by multiple mucinous deposits including :

A right hemicolectomy specimen consists of a terminal ileum 140x20 mm , caecum and ascending colon 120x60mm, mesentery and mesocolon are attached along the specimen to a maximum width of 60mm.  The appendiceal stump, 26x11 mm, is disrupted at the tip and covered by thick mucinous deposits.  The wall is up to 5 mm thick. The serosal surface including the mesentery are covered by confluent mucinous deposits.  No intraluminal polyps or tumours are identified.

(1 proximal and distal surgical resection margins; 2 RS mucin deposit terminal ileum; 3 mucin deposit ascending colon; 4 LS appendiceal orifice; 5 TS appendiceal orifice; 6&amp;amp;7 each one TS mid appendix; 8 tip one LS and one TS; 9 tip one LS; 10 five lymph nodes; 11 five lymph nodes)

An anterior resection specimen consists of a large segment of sigmoid and upper rectum 180x40mm with attached mesocolon up to 50mm. The distal 20mm of the specimen is not covered by peritoneum. The serosal surfaces are extensively ragged and covered by multiple mucinous deposits.  No intraluminal polyps or tumours are identified.  No diverticula are seen.

(12 proximal and distal margins; 13 RS wall involvement)

A segment of small bowel 70x25mm with attached mesentery up to 30mm. The serosal surface has multiple mucinous deposits.

(14 small bowel involvement)

A gallbladder 75x30mm. The outer surface is ragged, haemorrhagic and covered by thick exudates and multiple mucinous deposits. The wall is up to 2mm thick.  The mucosal surfaces are green and granular.  One yellow calculus is totally impacting the neck 15x15x10mm.

(15 TS neck and cystic duct; 16 TS body and LS fundus)

A spleen 80x40x30mm weighing 54g.  The outer surface is disrupted over 25% of its outer surface with multiple mucinous deposits also involving the adherent piece of fat 90x90x35mm.  The splenic cut surface is smooth, homogenous with no discrete lesions.  On sectioning a possible edge of yellow tissue (? pancreas) is adherent on the splenic outer surface.

(17&amp;amp;18 spleen with overly mucinous deposits; 19 adjacent fat involvement)

A fibrofatty piece of tissue consistent with omentum 330x160x40mm. Confluent involvement of the omental surface (omental cakes) by mucinous deposit is identified.  The cut surface is mucinous. There is a focal adherent segment of skeletal muscle (abdominal wall) 70x50mm.  The possible margin at this area is inked black.

(20&amp;amp;21 omental involvement with 20 tumour block for tissue banking)

Multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue consistent with peritoneal strips with scattered small firm nodules measuring 270x235x70mm with mucinous deposit in its serosal deposit.  No definite vaginal vault tissue is identified.

(22&amp;amp;23 RS peritoneal strips).  RS (M-23/ZH 9/10/2069 ank)

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr. R Frame)
Sections from the proximal terminal ileum resection margins show deposition of mucin locules with granulation tissue on the surface. Within the mucin, strips of low grade mucin secreting epithelium showing basally located nuclei are identified.  On the serosa of the ascending colon, similar deposits of mucin and low grade mucin secreting epithelium are present.  On the serosa of the appendiceal stump,  there is also accumulation of mucin admixed with granulation type tissue and occasional strips of low grade mucin secreting epithelium. There is focal foreign body giant cell reaction and fat necrosis within the mesentery in keeping with previous surgery.
No evidence of malignancy is seen in eight lymph nodes identified.
Sections from the anterior resection show accumulation of acellular mucin on the serosal surface associated with granulation tissue formation.
Acellular mucin is seen on the serosa of the small bowel.
Sections of gallbladder show changes of chronic cholecystitis.  Cellular mucin is present on the serosa of the gallbladder.
Sections of spleen show deposition of cellular mucin on the capsular surface.  In addition a portion of pancreatic tissue is also noted.  Focally, within the mucin there are strips of epithelium showing moderate atypia with prominent nucleoli, however the changes fall short of high grade dysplasia.
Sections of the peritoneum show extensive deposition of mucin within which strips of low grade mucin secreting epithelium are present.
Comment : Overall features are consistent with involvement by low grade appendiceal mucinous neoplasm (LAMN) on the residual appendiceal serosa and mesentery, small and large bowel, spleen, gallbladder and peritoneum, in keeping with pseudomyxoma peritonei (low grade mucinous carcinoma peritonei)
DIAGNOSIS:
DIAPHRAGM, RIGHT COLON, LIVER STRIP, VAGINAL VAULT, GALLBLADDER, SPLEEN, SMALL BOWEL, RECTUM -
-LOW GRADE APPENDICEAL MUCINOUS NEOPLASM (LAMN) INVOLVING RESIDUAL APPENDICEAL SEROSA AND MESENTERY, SMALL AND LARGE BOWEL SEROSA, GALLBLADDER SEROSA AND SPLENIC CAPSULE AND PERITONEUM.
16/9/2069 ank
