SPR no: 08K305767Z
MRN no: 364706
Site_name: SGP
Facility_id: MR
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report08K30576,08K30576 (08K305767Z) HAMBY, DEWITT
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
CAMDEN HOSPITAL AND SUTHERLAND HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
1. Peritoneal washings for cyto.
2. Uterus, R tubes, ovaries.
3. L ovary and tube.
Frozen section.  Pelvic mass CA125=51.  Mucinous borderline ovarian tumour.
1. Omental biopsy.
2. Left pelvic node.
3. Appendix.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;LEFT OVARY AND TUBE&amp;quot;.  Sections consists of two previous opened ovarian mass 150x100x80mm and separate tube with fimbriae 50mm in length.  The mass is multiloculated with solid areas (2 TS for FS). External surface appears smooth.

F/S : &amp;quot;Mucinous neoplasm at least borderline highly suspicious for carcinoma&amp;quot;.  Reported to Dr. Stephen (anaesthetist) by Dr. A. Vannah 1.40pm on 29.07.70.

Further Hx: No Hx CRC.  Previously well.

Mucinous material present. Tube measures 45mm in length and 5mm diameter.  Fallopian tube embedded entirely.

(1&amp;amp;2 FS; 3-20 RS from the ovarian cyst solid area; 21&amp;amp;22 tube).  RS (M-22)

Three more blocks (23-25 for tissue banking). RS (M-25)

B.  &amp;quot;UTERUS, RIGHT OVARY AND TUBE&amp;quot;.  Consists of a uterus, attached right ovary and tube weighing 115g.  Uterus measures 80x45x40mm.  Serosa appears grey and smooth.  Anterior surface inked blue, posterior black.  Opened sagittally endometrium measures up to 5mm.  Anterior wall measures 20mm and posterior wall 21mm.  There is a grey intrauterine polypoid lesion 20x5x5mm.  Three intramural white whorled nodules measuring 7-15mm present.  Tube measures 60mm in length 7mm diameter.  Paratubal cyst present. There is one invagination with yellow smooth surface and fimbrial tip protruding out one third proximal of the fimbria 20mm in length and 5mm diameter.  Sectioning is unremarkable.  Ovary measures 25x20x10mm.  Sectioning is unremarkable.  Tube embedded entirely.

(1 anterior cervix; 2 posterior cervix; 3 anterior wall; 4 posterior wall; 5-7 fundus and polyp; 8 fibroid; 9&amp;amp;10 tube; 11 invagination of the tube; 12 ovary).  RS (M-12)

C.  &amp;quot;OMENTAL BIOPSY&amp;quot;. Consists of fatty tissue 60x60x20mm.  No obvious nodule and lymph node identified macroscopically.  RS (M-4)

D.  &amp;quot;LEFT PELVIC NODE&amp;quot;.  Multiple fibrofatty tissue 30x15x10mm and contains a lymph node 20x7x6mm.

(1 one lymph node excised; 2 ? lymph node).  AE (M-2)

E.  &amp;quot;APPENDIX&amp;quot;.  Consists of appendix measuring 50mm in length 5mm diameter. Mesoappendix 15mm radially.  Serosa is smooth and grey.  Surgical margin inked blue.  Wall thickness measures up to 23mm and sectioning is unremarkable.

(1 LS from base and two TS; 2 one LS from the apex and one TS).  RS (M-2/SM 30/7/2067 ank)

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr. A Keithley)
A. Sections of the ovary show features of a mucinous adenocarcinoma, intestinal type, with  expansile invasion. There are large numbers of cysts lined by mucinous epithelium which shows intermediate to focally high nuclear grade, with prominent tufting and, in some areas, complex papillary formation, with multilayering of epithelium. Mitotic figures are frequent. Most of the cystic structures are back-to-back with a very little intervening stroma. Focal areas of cribriform architecture, and a few foci where irregular mucinous glands are seen within the stroma, are also present. Areas of tumour necrosis are also present. In one small focus, a few single and clumped tumour cells are seen within a heavily inflamed stroma. In some areas, the stroma appears fibrotic, but there is no definite desmoplastic stroma. No lymphovascular or perineural invasion is seen. Tumour extends close to the overlying serosal surface, however, the serosal surface is intact, and no mucin or atypical epithelium are seen on the serosal surface.
Sections of the fallopian tube are unremarkable. Within the stroma adjacent to the fallopian tube, there is a small incidental adrenal rest.
Immunohistochemical stains on the mucinous adenocarcinoma are positive for Cytokeratin 7, Cytokeratin 20 (patchy), CDX-2 (weak and patchy), and Pax-8. Stains for Estrogen receptor, Progesterone receptor, WT1 and p16 are negative. This pattern of staining is supportive of an ovarian primary site, but is not diagnostic, and clinical correlation is required.
B. Sections of the uterus show unremarkable cervix, with no atypia of the squamous or endocervical epithelium. The endometrium appears inactive. An endometrial polyp is confirmed. Small leiomyomas are also confirmed, which show no necrosis, no nuclear atypia and no increased mitotic activity. Foci of adenomyosis are present. The serosal surface is unremarkable. Sections of the right fallopian tube and ovary are unremarkable.
C. Sections show lobulated adipose tissue consistent with omentum. No tumour is identified.
D. The two lymph nodes show reactive changes only.
E. Sections of appendix show fibrous obliteration of the distal lumen. The more proximal lumen shows a small serrated polyp focally, with intact surrounding lamina propria. No atypical mucinous lesion is identified. There is no evidence of malignancy in the tissue examined.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. LEFT OVARY AND TUBE:
- MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA, INTESTINAL TYPE (PLEASE SEE TEXT).
B. UTERUS, RIGHT OVARY AND TUBE:
- ENDOMETRIAL POLYP, ADENOMYOSIS AND SMALL LEIOMYOMA.
C. OMENTAL BIOPSY:
- LOBULATED  ADIPOSE TISSUE ONLY.
D. LEFT PELVIC NODE:
- THE TWO LYMPH NODES SHOW MILD REACTIVE CHANGES ONLY.
E. APPENDIX:
- SMALL MUCOSAL SERRATED POLYP ONLY.
8/8/2069 cy
