SPR no: 76P575039T
MRN no: 10616325
Site_name: FINLEY HOSPITAL & COMMUNITY HEALTH CARE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report76P57503 (76P575039T) Colaizzo, BRODERICK ALEXIS
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
EUDUNDA HOSPITAL AND SUTHERLAND HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:  Peritonectomy/HIPEC for likely ovarian Ca.  Bilateral diaphragm strips, splenectomy, cholecystectomy, omentectomy, peritoneal strip, right hemicolectomy.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;PERITONEAL DISEASE, GALLBLADDER, SPLEEN, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY, OMENTUM, DIAPHRAGM &amp;quot;.  Received in one container multiple tissue fragments with confluent serosal minute white deposits including:
- An extended right hemicolectomy with extended segment of small bowel 1000mm and up to 30mm in circumference, right hemicolectomy 150x70mm with attached mesentery up to 80mm and peritoneal strip of the large bowel 170mm in maximum width.  Extensive serosal involvement of multiple haemorrhagic and minute white deposit is identified.  The deposit measures 2 to 7mm in maximum diameter.  The mucosal surfaces are unremarkable.  No definite appendix is identified.  The tumour infiltrates into the mesenteric fat with no involvement of the mucosal surfaces.  (1  proximal and distal resection margin; 2  adherent small bowel loops; 3  anatomical site of appendix; 4  large bowel; 5  mesentery; 6  ?five lymph nodes; 7  peritoneal strip).
- A segment of large bowel 70x35mm with attached mesentery up to 20mm.  There is extensive haemorrhagic area with minute deposits 30x20mm involving the mesocolon but spares the mucosa macroscopically. (8  representative).
- A gallbladder 100x45mm.  The outer surface is extensively haemorrhagic and covered by multiple firm white adhesions and possible deposits.  The wall is up to 3mm thick.  The mucosal surfaces are green and granular.  No calculi are identified.
(9  cystic duct and TS neck; 10  TS body and LS fundus with serosal involvement).
- Spleen 232g measuring 135x80x35mm with attached peritoneal strip up to 70mm.  The peritoneal surface and the splenic capsule have multiple haemorrhagic and white deposits.  It is involving the underlying hilar fat.  The spleen cut surface is unremarkable.
(11&amp;amp;12  splenic involvement; 13 peritoneal involvement; 14  hilar fat).
- A possible cystic structure 50x45mm with thin wall.  It has smooth inner lining with occasional soft yellow material.  (15&amp;amp;16  representative cystic tissue).
- Received a fibrofatty piece of tissue 300x90x45mm consistent with omentum with extensive overlying involvement by firm white deposit infiltrating the underlying fatty tissue. about 80 % of the submitted omentum is involved.  (17&amp;amp;18  omental disease).
- Received multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue consistent with peritoneal and diaphragmatic strips measuring 400x190x40mm in aggregate.  The serosal surfaces are extensively involved by multiple haemorrhagic and firm deposits. (19&amp;amp;20  peritoneum).  RS (M-20/ZH 14/2/2070 km).
Further: 21-25 further sections of ?omentum; LV

MICROSCOPIC:  (U Dec)

Sections show extensive deposits of serous carcinoma consistent with ovary/female genital tract origin (eg fallopian tube/peritoneum). The tumour has a papillary architecture with a stromal desmoplastic reaction to invasion and there are numerous psammoma bodies present. The serous carcinoma appears low grade (low/high grading system).

Carcinoma involves colon serosa and colon muscularis propria, small bowel serosa,  peritoneal tissue (multiple deposits), gallbladder peritoneal surface, perisplenic hilar fat and adjacent attached peritoneal tissue, splenic capsular tissue and omentum.

There is extensive lymphovascular invasion involving all layers of small bowel including lymphatics in submucosa and mucosa, peritoneal tissue, mesenteric fat, gallbladder adventitia and splenic hilar fat.

Lymph node metastases are present in (7 of 7 sampled mesenteric/mesocolic lymph nodes  are positive for metastatic serous carcinoma).

Treatment effect is not readily assessable (standard system to grade treatment effect in this setting is only applicable to high grade serous carcinoma), but the deposits of tumour appear viable without degeneration changes.

The cystic structure is a thick walled mesothelial cyst.  The surface of the cyst is involved by serous carcinoma.

Immunostains:  Blocks 6, 16: p53 shows moderate positive wild type staining (consistent with  low grade serous diagnosis).

DIAGNOSIS:
PERITONEAL DISEASE, GALLBLADDER, SPLEEN, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY, OMENTUM, DIAPHRAGM -
-  Metastatic low grade serous carcinoma, consistent with ovary or other female genital tract origin (correlate with previous findings)
-  Lymph node metastases present (7/7 sampled lymph nodes positive)
-  Extensive lymphovascular invasion present
nh
