SPR no: 43O482339F
MRN no: 43548233
Site_name: WEST WIMMERA HEALTH SERVICE - JEPARIT
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report43O48233 (43O482339F) Beyser, Kendall
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
TANUNDA HOSPITAL HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Posterior vaginal wall for frozen section.  CA CRC bladder etc.
Pelvic mass (rectum, bladder, vaginal vault).
Pelvic lymph node. Gallbladder. Pelvic mass. Pelvic exenteration.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;POSTERIOR VAGINAL WALL&amp;quot;.  A strip of mucosa plus soft tissue 50x5x5mm.  A/E on edge in two blocks for frozen section.

Frozen section report:
&amp;quot;No malignancy&amp;quot;.  Reported to Dr. Declan by Dr. K. Szaflarski on 5.10.71.  AE (M-2/SM)

B.  &amp;quot;RECTUM, BLADDER, CERVIX, VAGINA&amp;quot;. Consists of an enblock of bladder, vagina, colorectum and attached loop of small bowel.

Bladder measures 90x60x40mm. Surgical margin of urethra resected and bladder opened. At the posterolateral aspect of the bladder, there is an ulcerated area, measuring 30x25mm. Vagina and vaginal vault are attached posterior to the bladder 50 mm in length and up to 30mm diameter. Mucosa appears intact.

Portion of colon attached posterosuperiorly measures 150mm in length, 65mm in maximum circumference. It is extended 40mm below the anterior peritoneal reflection. Above the anterior peritoneal reflection, there is a tan ulcerated area measuring 45x30mm. Lesion is 85mm from proximal colonic margin and 70mm from distal colonic margin.

Attached loop of small bowel is also presented superiorly, 80mm in length, 20mm in diameter. Mucosa appears intact.

Ovary ?left ovary and part of fallopian tube are identified. Ovary measures 15x10x10mm. The  tube measures 30mm in length, 7mm in diameter.

Serosa at the bladder dome and colonic serosa is granular and haemorrhagic.

Involving the colon, mesocolic fat, and extending through bladder wall into bladder mucosa is a large tumour mass approximately 70 mm diameter  x 50 mm that has a variable pale firm cut surface with areas of cystic change. The tumour is present in colon as an ulcerated lesion with raised egdes measuring 40 mm x 25 mm and there is contigous tumour from colon to bladder. The tumour invades into soft tissue adjacent to vaginal vault but does not involve mucosa.  There is no cervix or uterus (previous hystectomy). In the bladder the tumour forms a 20 mm diameter papillary mass that extends into posterior lumen. The tumour is clear of the radial bladder perivesical margin by &amp;gt; 10 mm, and is clear of the distal vaginal margin &amp;gt;30 mm and is clear of the colon end margins &amp;gt;50 mm and clear of the attached small bowel loop margins &amp;gt;30 mm and appears clear of colon mesorectal fat margins &amp;gt;10 mm where this can be assessed. The whole specimen was difficult to orient and dissect due to adhesions and distortion.


(1 urethra distal margin; 2 second section of urethra; 3 proximal colonic margin; 4 distal colonic margin; 5-8 full face of tumour from colon extending to the small bowel [5 small bowel; 6 small bowel and serosa; 7 and 8 colon]; 9 peritoneal surface and colon; 10 bladder and tumour; 11 bladder dome; 12 and 13 tumour and small bowel; 14 vagina; 15 bladder; 16 left ?tube; 17 ?ovary; 18 ?three lymph nodes; 19 ?four lymph nodes).

There is a separate small portion of small bowel in container 45mm in length, 20mm in diameter. One full face is embedded. No lesions seen. (20 full face of small bowel).

There is a separate gallbladder in the container measuring 95x50x40mm. It contains large brown, granular calculus, 30mm. Wall thickness measures 2mm. Mucosa is granular. No lesions seen. Representative sections embedded.
(21 cystic duct and neck; 22 body and fundus). RS (M-22)

Further blocks:
23 vaginal vault and tumour;
24,25,26 contiguous slice vagina, cavity, colon
27,28,29,30 adjacent similar slice, lateral to 24-26 (forms full face section);
31,32,33 L lateral soft tissue margin 31 inferior to 33 colon
34 superior peritoneal surface over cavity posterior to bladder
35 anterior bladder wall
36-39 colon tumour
40, 41 further mesocolic lymph nodes; LV
42,43 further nodes;
44 posterior mesorectal plane, 10 mm uninvolved fat; LV
C. &amp;quot;RIGHT DISTAL URETER&amp;quot;. Consists of an ureter, measuring 40mm in length with a diameter of 5mm. There is a suture at one end. No tumour is identified in the ureter. Ureter is serially sliced from the suture site.  (1 section from the suture site; 2 three sections from middle; 3 three sections from middle; 4 one TS from other site). RS (M-4)
D. &amp;quot;LEFT DISTAL URETER&amp;quot;. Consists of a luminal structure, 50mm in length, 5mm in diameter, with a suture and staple at one side. No tumour is identified macroscopically. It is serially sliced from suture site and embedded. (1 en face from suture site; 2 three sections; 3 three sections from middle; 4 section from other site). RS (M-4)
E. &amp;quot;PELVIC LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;. Consists of multiple fibrofatty tissue, measuring 60x50x30mm in aggregate. Tissue appears vascular with multiple staples. It is difficult to find any definite lymph node. All possible lymph node tissue embedded. RS (M-6/SM 14/10/2067 cy)
MICROSCOPIC: K Thornock

A.  POSTERIOR VAGINAL WALL:
Sections show squamous mucosa consistent with vaginal tissue with subjacent fibrofatty connective tissue, negative for tumour.

B.  RECTUM, BLADDER, CERVIX, VAGINA:

The large tumour mass involving colon, pericolic fat, bladder is an invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.  The tumour has a cribriform glandular pattern and is intestinal type and is considered most likely to be of colon origin rather than bladder origin (the colon is the dominant site of tumour and the morphology is consistent).  However there is no residual colonic mucosal lesion eg adenoma present.  The tumour invades deeply into attached pericolic fat and there are associated areas of abscess formation and fibrous scar tissue and other areas with a mixture of abscess and carcinoma tissue present.  The adhesion to small bowel appears to be through fibrous granulation tissue although carcinoma is close.  The extension to into bladder is carcinoma with some areas of abscess.  The tumour is presumed to involve the colonic peritoneal surface as the adhesion to bladder and tumour involvement appears to be above the peritoneal reflection but the peritoneal surface in this area is obliterated.  All margins assessed appear negative for tumour.

CARCINOMA OF COLON OR RECTUM SYNOPTIC REPORT:
(based on CAP 2018 guidelines):
Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma
Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated
Tumor extent: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria deeply into pericolorectal tissue and appears to involvevisceral peritoneum, with direct spead into attached bladder wall and mucosa, and invades close to upper part of vaginal vault.
Treatment effect, primary site: No known presurgical therapy.
Small vessel lymphovascular invasion:  Not identified
Large vessel (venous) invasion:  Not identified* (orcien elastic stains pending)
*SEE ADDENDUM AND AMENDMENT
Perineural invasion:  Not identified
Tumor budding:  Intermediate score (5-9) Budd count:  9 per 0.785 mm2
Type of polyp in which invasive carcinoma arose: None identified
Tumor deposits (pericolic/perirectal fat): Not identified

MARGINS:
Margins are negative for tumour (not involved)

Proximal colon margin: Not involved, distance of invasive tumor to margin:  &amp;gt;20mm
Distal colon margin: Not involved, distance of invasive tumor to margin:  &amp;gt;20 mm
Radial margin:  Not involved, distance of invasive tumor to radial margin: &amp;gt; 10 mm
Other margin(s):  small bowel ends, distal urethral, perivesical fat margin, soft tissue around vaginal vault all appear clear of tumour &amp;gt;10 mm

Lymph Nodes (regional):
Lymph nodes positive
Lymph nodes, number involved: 4
Lymph nodes, number examined: 33

Distant metastases (histologically confirmed): Not identified

Additonal pathologic findings:
The colon has a small hyperplastic polyp.
The vaginal mucosa is normal.
The bladder mucosa shows no urothelial lesions.
The distal urethral margin of bladder is normal.
The attached small bowel is normal and the margins are negative.
The separate piece of small bowel is unremarkable.
The gallbladder shows no mucosal abnormalities (calculus present).
The ovary and fallopian tube ? left show no lesions.
Ancillary studies / Immunohistochemistry (IHC):

Immunohistochemistry for Mismatch Repair Proteins (MMRP):
Block: B8
Other suitable block for testing: B7

Normal staining for all four MMR proteins (MLH1, PMS2, MSH2, MSH6) is present.

Comment:
This is the normal pattern of MMRP immunohistochemistry.
No deficient MMR protein identified.
Lynch syndrome is very unlikely.

Other specimens:
A.  POSTERIOR VAGINAL WALL:
Sections show squamous mucosa consistent with vaginal tissue with subjacent fibrofatty connective tissue, negative for tumour.
C. RIGHT DISTAL URETER:
The ureter shows no lesions.
D. LEFT DISTAL URETER:
The ureter shows no lesions.
E. PELVIC LYMPH NODE:
Sections show fibrofatty connective tissue with seven benign lymph nodes.
Pathologic Stage Classification (pTNM, AJCC 8th ed): pT4a N2

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  POSTERIOR VAGINAL WALL:
- squamous mucosa with subjacent fibrofatty connective tissue,
- negative for tumour.
B.  RECTUM, BLADDER, CERVIX, VAGINA:
- tumour is considered most likely colon origin (dominant site of tumour and consistent histology),
- adenocarcinoma
- grade G2: Moderately differentiated
- carcinoma invades through the colon muscularis propria deeply into pericolorectal tissue and appears to involvevisceral peritoneum, with direct spead into attached soft tissue and into bladder wall and mucosa, and invades in soft tissue close to upper part of vaginal vault.
- Margins appear negative for tumour (not involved)
- Mesocolic lymph nodes positive for metastasis (4 of 33 lymph nodes positive)
C. RIGHT DISTAL URETER:
- ureter shows no lesions.
- negative for tumour.
D. LEFT DISTAL URETER:
- ureter shows no lesions.
- negative for tumour.
E. PELVIC LYMPH NODE:
- lymph nodes negative for tumour (0/7).
Supplementary report, addenda:
Specimen A (colon):
Elastic stains on section A36 show a focus of large vessel (venous) invasion in submucosa. In adjacent section A37 there is a focus suspicious of large vessel (venous) invasion in pericolic fat (suspicious of extramural venous invasion).
Amendment:
Specimen A (colon):
- Large vessel (venous) invasion: Present (V1), focal intramural, and suspicious of focal extramural venous invasion.
