SPR no: 28U155462Q
MRN no: 2871554
Site_name: FORBES DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report28U15546 (28U155462Q) PREIST, Addison Thurman
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
MAITLAND HOSPITAL (NSW) HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
PMP, primary appendix.  Peritonectomy, spleen, gallbladder, omentum, right hemicolon.  Skin lesion lower abdomen.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, RIGHT COLON&amp;quot;.  Consists of multiple components in the same bucket including right hemicolectomy with a portion of small bowel 250mm in length and 15mm diameter and portion of colon including caecum and ascending colon 90mm in length and 35mm diameter.  Appendix attached is 60mm in length, 6mm in diameter.  Mesocolon attached 60mm radially.
The appendix appears mildly dilated at the tip with mucinous material attached over the serosa of the tip.  Multiple tan adhesions attached to the serosa. Serosa over the colon appears shiny and mucinous and serosa over the small bowel is haemorrhagic.
Sectioning of appendix shows appendiceal wall up to 6mm.  Mucinous foci attached to the tip of appendix. Appendix and cecum around the orifice  embedded entirely.    No other lesion identified.

(1  proximal and distal surgical margin; 2-5  serial LS of appendical base and surrounding caecum; 6  three TS of appendix; 7  three TS of appendix; 8-10  serial LS of tip including mucinous area; 11  two random sections of ascending colon with ?mucinous serosa; 12  random sections of small bowel; 13  apical lymph node; 14  ?four lymph nodes; 15  ?four lymph nodes; 16  ?four lymph nodes; 17  ?three lymph nodes; 18  ?three lymph nodes; 19  ?three lymph nodes; 20  ?three lymph nodes).

There is a spleen weighing 510g, measuring 140x110x60mm covered by multiple mucinous haemorrhagic foci.  Surface and parenchyma of the spleen is involved extensively by multiple cystic mucinous areas.  Representative section embedded block 21-25.

Gallbladder 80x50x20mm.  No definite mucinous area identified over the serosa.  Wall thickness measures up to 3mm and mucosa is velvety.  No calculus, no definite polyp or cancer identified.

(26  two section from cystic duct and pericystic duct lymph node; 27  section of body).

Portion of small bowel 70mm in length, 20mm diameter.  Multiple haemorrhagic adhesions identified over the serosa and mucosa.  No definite tumour identified over the mucosa.  One full face of small bowel embedded block 28.
Multiple fibrofatty tissue measuring 190x200x90mm in aggregate.  Multiple haemorrhagic foci/nodularity identified.(29-33  representative section of nodularity).  RS (M-33).

B.  &amp;quot;SKIN LESION LOWER ABDOMEN&amp;quot;.  Consists of ellipse of skin measuring 35x10 with a depth of 5mm with haemorrhagic focus in the centre 10x9mm.  Surgical margin inked blue.

(1  one LS from one end; 2  three TS from the lesion; 3  one LS from other end).  RS (M-3/SM 19/7/2068 km).

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr G Zumstein)
A.  Histology reveals a low grade appendiceal mucinous neoplasm which is characterised by villiform tufted mucinous columnar epithelium which replaces much of the distal half of the appendiceal mucosa.  The proximal appendiceal mucosa is, otherwise, unremarkable.  There is pushing-like extension of atypical mucinous epithelium with pools of extracellular mucin with dystrophic microcalcification extending all the way through the wall of the appendix which is focally replaced by fibrous tissue.  Widespread deposits of organising mucin are present over the surface of the serosa of the appendix with a low cellularity population of atypical mucinous epithelium.  Similar deposits of abundant cellular mucin and relatively low levels of atypical mucinous epithelium are seen over the capsule of the spleen extending into the pulp of the spleen focally, the serosa of the small bowel, serosa of the gallbladder and omentum.  No malignancy is seen in 25 pericolic lymph nodes or within one cystic duct lymph node adjacent to the neck of the gallbladder.  There is no evidence of frankly malignant high grade adenocarcinoma and no signet ring cells are seen.

B.  Histology shows a seborrheic keratosis which focally extends through each margin of excision.  There is, however, no evidence of malignancy.

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, RIGHT COLON -
- LOW GRADE APPENDICEAL MUCINOUS NEOPLASM WITH WIDESPREAD DEPOSITS OVER THE CAPSULE OF THE SPLEEN, SMALL BOWEL, SEROSA WITH GALLBLADDER AND OMENTUM.
B.  SKIN LESION LOWER ABDOMEN -
- SEBORRHEIC KERATOSIS.
21/11/2068 km
