SPR no: 47V1406075
MRN no: 8598350
Site_name: MORANBAH HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report47V14060 (47V1406075) DETILLION, JASPER
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
THE ROYAL WOMEN'S HOSPITAL AND SUTHERLAND HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Redo peritonectomy previous CRC Ca.
1. R abdo wall wound frozen section.
2. L subcutaneous nodule abdo wall frozen section.
3. Small bowel frozen section.
Recurrent colon ca with history of peritonectomy and liver resection.  Hepatic artery lymph node.  Left liver (segments 2, 3, 4) and small bowel.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;RIGHT ABDOMINAL WALL WOUND&amp;quot;.  Pale fibrous scar tissue 40x30x20mm.  Sampled for frozen section.

F/S : &amp;quot;Negative&amp;quot;.  Report to Surgical Registrar by Dr. M. Ruta.

Post fixation assessment : specimen consists of a glistening surface 35x35mm with underlying tissue to a depth of 15mm.  No definite lesions are identified.  A possible resection margin is inked black.  The cut surface is fibrofatty with multiple suture like material across the specimen.  No discrete lesions are identified.

(1 FS; 2 LS of each peripheral resection margin; 3&amp;amp;4 RS central specimen).  RS (M-4)

B.  &amp;quot;LEFT SUBCUTANEOUS NODULE&amp;quot;. A fibrofatty piece of tissue 12x12x5mm in aggregate.

(1 FS; 2 remainder tissue). AE (2-2)

C.  &amp;quot;SMALL BOWEL&amp;quot;.  A 3mm red fatty piece of tissue embedded whole for frozen section.

F/S : &amp;quot;Negative&amp;quot;.  Reported to surgical registrar by Dr. M. Koussa on 5.6.70.  AE (1-1)

Specimens A-C reported by Dr. M. Goettl and result phoned to Surgical Registrar at 10:25am on 05.06.69.

D.  &amp;quot;COMMON HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;. A lymph node 17x11x6mm with unremarkable cut surface.  Serially sliced.  AE (M-1)

E.  &amp;quot;LIVER SEGMENT 2, 3, 4 AND SMALL BOWEL&amp;quot;.  Received multiple tissue fragments in the same jar including :

A segment of small bowel measuring 15mm in length and up to 30mm in circumference with overlying adhesion on the outer surface.  Stapled resection margin is inked blue, the open unstapled margin is inked black.  The mucosal surface is unremarkable.

(1 two TS across the specimen)
A wedge resection of liver consistent with segment 2 and 3 weighing 163g and measures 105x95x40mm.  The resection margin is inked blue. The capsular surface appears to be thickened and has multiple adhesions.  The specimen is serially sliced into 18 slices. The cut surface surface reveals focal areas of haemorrhage mainly subcapsular prominent in slices 7-9 over and area measuring 15x10x8mm.  No discrete lesions are identified.

(2 two LS + 1 [peripheral edge]; 3&amp;amp;4 haemorrhagic area in slices 8 and 9 respectively; 5 normal liver in slice 12; 6 two LS slice 18 [other peripheral edge])

A segment of liver consistent with segment 4 weighing 171g measuring 110x70x40mm.  The possible left resection margin is inked blue, possible right resection margin inked black and the inferoanterior margin red.  The specimen is serially sliced from superior to inferior. The cut surface reveals two tumour deposits, the largest measures 60x50x40mm.  It is abutting the blue inked margin but is located 8mm of the nearest black inked margin. The second lesion is located inferiorly towards the anterior margin, appears to be closely related to large vessel measuring 10x10x8mm and located 7mm of the nearest anterior surgical resection margin.

(7&amp;amp;8 smaller lesion with the nearest anterior resection margin; 9-11 largest lesion [9&amp;amp;10 closer right margin, 11 lesion abutting the left margin]; 12 uninvolved liver).  RS (M-12/ZH 5/6/2067 ank) [Please see block diagram]

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr M Raguay)
A.  Sections show dense fibrous connective tissue with fibroblastic reaction and foreign body giant cell reaction to suture material.  Negative for malignancy.

B.  The sections show fibrofatty tissue with fibroblastic reaction and dense collagenous connective tissue with giant cell reaction to suture material.  Negative for malignancy.

C.  The sections show fibroblastic reaction and adjacent smooth muscle and adipose tissue.  Negative for malignancy.

D.  Section shows lymph node with reactive changes.  Negative for malignancy.

E.  Sections of the segment of small bowel show prominent serosal - adventitial adhesions with fibroblastic reaction.  Very small amount of acellular mucus is seen within fibrous tissue in the adventitia.  There is also submucosal oedema with vascular congestion and dilatation.

Sections of the first described segment of liver shows areas of haemorrhage within the liver parenchyma.  There is also prominent polymorph neutrophil infiltrate (?surgery/therapy related).  In addition, there is mild macrovesicular steatosis and patchy non-specific chronic inflammation of some portal tracts.  There is also foreign body giant cell reaction with fibrosis on the surface of the liver.

Sections of the second segment of liver demonstrate liver parenchyma with macrovesicular steatosis, haemorrhage, and polymorph neutrophil infiltrate.  There are also deposits of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma morphologically consistent with large bowel origin. The smaller tumour deposit appears to be subcapsular in location with infiltration into dense capsular fibrosis and is 0.5mm from the diathermied fibrous tissue (anterior) margin.  The larger deposit of adenocarcinoma involves the blue inked margin and is well clear of the black inked margin.

SUMMARY:
A.  RIGHT ABDOMINAL WALL WOUND - FIBROSIS.
B.  LEFT SUBCUTANEOUS NODULE - FIBROSIS.
C.  SMALL BOWEL - FIBROSIS.
D.  COMMON HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH NODE - NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY.
E.  LIVER SEGMENT 2, 3 AND 4 - ADENOCARCINOMA;
SMALL BOWEL - FOCAL ACELLULAR MUCUS - SEE TEXT FOR DETAILS.
8/5/2066 km
