SPR no: 65H255547R
MRN no: 6522555
Site_name: SMITHTON DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Cholecystitis.  Intraop finding of cirrhosis.
Additional information obtained:  Past history of hepatitis B, EtOH use, Ex IVDU.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Gallbladder&amp;quot;, consists of a gallbladder received piecemeal, in aggregate 75 x 45 x 23mm.  The cystic duct is not identified. The serosal surface is purple and partly covered with a possible exudate.  The wall thickness is up to 8mm. The mucosal surface is brown and appears partly ulcerated and covered by grey slough. Multiple pieces of black and yellow gall stones are present, individually up to 23mm in  maximum diameter.  AE 19 blocks.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Liver biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of a core biopsy 22mm in length and a less than 1mm fragment of tissue. AE 1 block.   (TO:LW/ec 13/9/72)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Q Liapis):
A.  Sections of the gallbladder show moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma arising on a background of high grade epithelial dysplasia.  Tumour focally penetrates the serosa (T3).  Vascular invasion is present.  No perineural invasion is seen.  Due to the piecemeal nature of the specimen, margin assessment cannot be performed however, the tumour extends into diathermy effected tissue.  The background gallbladder shows features of acute cholecystitis and cholelithiasis
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status
MLH1    Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2    Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2    Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6    Preserved nuclear staining

Comment:  Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

B.  Sections of liver show a non-specific chronic hepatitis with cirrhosis.  The features are as follows:

ARCHITECTURE
Overall:  Cirrhotic
Fibrous linkage:  Present

PORTAL TRACTS
Inflammation:  Moderate
Inflammatory infiltrate:  Lymphocytes
Interface hepatitis:  Minimal
Bile ducts:  Mild ductular reaction present
Vessels:  Normal

LOBULES
Inflammation:  Minimal
Apoptosis:  Absent
Steatosis:  Mild to moderate
Ballooning:  Focal
Iron:  Absent
Copper/copper-associated protein:  Absent
Alpha-1-antitrypsin:  Absent
Hepatitis B surface antigen:  Absent
Other:  There is no evidence of malignancy.

ISHAK MODIFIED H.A.I. SCORE:

Periportal or periseptal interface hepatitis (piecemeal necrosis):
Score:	1 - Mild (focal, few portal areas)

Confluent necrosis:
Score:	 0 - Absent

Focal (spotty) lytic necrosis, apoptosis and focal inflammation (does not include diffuse sinusoidal infiltration by inflammatory cells):
Score:	1 - One focus or less per 10X objective

Portal inflammation:
Score:  2 - Moderate, some or all portal areas

Staging:  Architectural changes, fibrosis and cirrhosis
Stage: 6 - Cirrhosis, probable or definite


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Gallbladder:
- Moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma
- Focal penetration of the serosa (T3)
- Acute cholecystitis and cholelithiasis

B.  Liver:  Non-specific chronic hepatitis with cirrhosis
