SPR no: 13R524353L
MRN no: 4858414
Site_name: GOULBURN VALLEY HEALTH - TATURA CAMPUS
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
High grade sarcoma R adductor compartment.  Fresh tissue for biobank please, consent done.
Additional information obtained from the operation report:  Excision of sarcoma right posterior side.

MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right side sarcoma short superior, long lateral, medium medial&amp;quot; received fresh and sampled for biobanking, consists of an oriented excision of skin, adipose tissue and muscle, with three sutures in situ (short - superior, medium - medial, long - lateral).  The specimen measures 122mm (superior to inferior) x 105mm (medial to lateral) x 88mm (superficial to deep) and weighs 389g.  The ellipse of skin measures 117 x 34mm. Specimen inked, posterior black, lateral/right blue and left green.  A small amount of red ink is applying to the false margin created when tumour banking was performed.  Specimen has been serially sectioned from slice one (superior) to slice ten (inferior) and reveals a haemorrhagic, cystic, heterogenous tumour with pale areas resembling fish flesh and appears to be surrounded by adjacent muscle and is mostly encapsulated by this muscle.  The adjacent fat appears mature. The bulk of the medial margin appears to be fat. The lateral margin is fat and muscle. The deep margin is predominantly muscle. The superficial margin is skin. The tumour extends through from slices one to seven and measures 45mm (medial to lateral) x 40mm (superficial to deep) x 70mm (superior to inferior).  The tumour is 1mm from the blue inked lateral margin, 2mm from black inked posterior margin, 25mm from green inked medial margin, 42mm from inferior margin and appears to possibly abut the superior margin (this may be tumour or fibrous tissue).  The tumour appears to be well-clear of the superficial margin (16mm away). Blocks: 1 to 4 - composite superior margin; 5 to 7 - composite superior margin; 8 to 10 - composite superior margin (please note that for blocks 1 to 10 each composite section is embedded from superficial to deep); 11 &amp;amp; 12 - composite medial margin embedded from margin to tumour, from slice two; 13 &amp;amp; 14 - composite posterior margin from slice two; 15 - tumour around tumour banking site (including posterior margin, from slice three); 16 &amp;amp; 17 - tumour and lateral margin, composite section from slice three; 18 to 21 - composite section of tumour in slice four (18 &amp;amp; 19 - lateral margin; 20 &amp;amp; 21 - posterior margin and site of tumour banking); 22 - lateral margin and tumour in slice five; 23 to 25 - composite section from skin to tumour in slice five, including macroscopically normal adipose tissue; 26 to 28 - composite section of tumour and lateral margin (26) and deep margin (28 - non photographed surface embedded; one nick divides between slice twenty six and twenty seven and two nicks divided between twenty seven and twenty eight, also one nick divides between twenty three and twenty four and two nicks is at the central end of slice twenty five); 29 to 32 - composite section of slice nine, inferior to tumour; 33 &amp;amp; 34 - LS slice ten (most inferior slice).  Annotated photograph produced.  Shown to VK.  Additional blocks added on 20/2/2066:  35 to 38 - composite section of superior margin inbetween slices five to seven and eight to ten; 39- superomedial margin; 40 &amp;amp; 41 - composite medial margin in slice three; 42 - deep margin in slice five; 43 &amp;amp; 44 - composite medial margin in slice six; 45 &amp;amp; 46 - deep margin in slice seven.   (TO: AI/ta/rs 19/2/70)

MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr E Mora):
The specimen is extensively sampled.  Sections show skin, subcutis with underlying soft tissue which includes striated muscle.  Within the deep and lateral half of the specimen within muscle there is a central cystic cavity, consistent with a previous biopsy. Adjacent to the cavity there is extensive infiltrative tumour within muscle,  organising fibrous connective tissue and fat.  There is subacute haemorrhage close to the cavity. The overlying subcutis appears uninvolved.
The tumour shows variable appearances.  There is a minor component that is relatively cellular and composed of a highly pleomorphic epithelioid and spindle cells with hyperchromatic irregular nuclei and occasional multinucleate forms, (eg block 18).  This component is viable and shows occasional mitoses including atypical forms. No necrosis is seen. This shows gradual transition to relatively hypocellular mainly spindle cell and focal epithelioid tumour  arranged haphazardly as single dispersed cells within fibrous connective tissue.  Amongst the latter tumour are lobules of adipose tissue which shows significant variation in cell size.  Rare atypical multivacuolated are seen whic possible represent lipoblasts (eg block 18 and 25).  At the advancing edge of the tumour distinguishing hypocellular tumour from reactive fibroblasts is exceedingly difficult and assessing clearance from is  therefore somewhat subjective but is interpreted as follows.
Margins;
Superior:		Positive (blocks 2 &amp;amp; 8),
Deep:	Positive., focally across approximately 2mm (block 46) adjacent to striated muscle,
Lateral:		0.8mm (block 17) with intervening fibroblastic and adipose tissue (block 22),
Medial:		Clear (&amp;gt;10mm with intervening apparent mature adipose tissue),
Inferior:		Well clear (&amp;gt;10mm).
Superfical (skin):	Clear.
COMMENT:
The features are those of a pleomorphic sarcoma.  Grading is  unreliable post neoadjuvant therapy, however residual cellular pleomorphic and mitotic active tumour is present.  The bulk of the  tumour, however appears hypocellular and less pleomorphic.  There is hyalinised fibrous tissue present amongst the tumour compatible with treatment response, however extensive residual tumour remains.  The presence of some adipose tissue showing variation in cell size may relate to primary adjuvant therapy, however, a couple of cells show cytomorphology suggestive of lipoblasts and the tumour could represent a differentiated liposarcoma.  MDM2 analysis will be performed on both the clearly pleomorphic tumour as as on tissue forming the medial margin which is predominately fat.  If an MDM2 alteration is not detected the tumour is best classified as a pleomorphic undifferentiated sarcoma assuming a specific line of differentiation line of differentiation was not detected in the preoperative biopsy (report not available).  Correlation with the preoperative biopsy findings is necessary.
Shown to Dr E Stania who concurs.
DIAGNOSIS:
Right side sarcoma (excision):
-   Pleomorphic sarcoma with cellular and hypocellular areas (see comment).
-   Additional report with mdm2 status to follow.
The findings were discussed with Prof E Ezzell.
