SPR no: 39C486085E
MRN no: 1319741
Site_name: THE TWEED HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Clear cell cancer ovary - cystectomy.  2068.
Please refer to case (39C48608 review of outside slides)  Previous clinical information: Ovarian tumour of the left tube and ovary.  Only the right adnexa are provided in the specimen for the current case.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus tubes and ovaries, rectocaecum [sic]&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix rectosigmoid and right tube and ovary weighing 367 grams in total.  The uterus and cervix alone weigh 88 grams.  The uterus measures 80 x 50 x 32mm and has a mostly shiny serosal surface with an area of adhesions and roughening over the left posterior aspect measuring 50 x 40mm.  The cervix measures 28 x 28mm and has a slightly haemorrhagic appearance.  The posterior aspect of the uterus is attached by peritoneum to the distal sigmoid/rectum which measures 170mm in length to a diameter of 35mm with 40mm of attached mesorectal/sigmoid mesenteric fat.  On opening of the uterus the endometrium measures less than 1mm thick on a myometrium that measures 12mm thick.  The posterior myometrium measures up to 18mm thick and is distorted by two intramural and submucosal fibroids measuring up to 22mm in maximal dimension.  No endometrial lesions are identified.  Within the soft tissue of the left adnexa there are irregular pale and fibrotic nodules measuring up to 9mm in diameter.  No definitive tumour or mass is identified in this area.  The lumen of the left fallopian tube is identified and measures 5mm in diameter.  The right fallopian tube measures 55 x 7mm and the right ovary measures 25 x 14 x 8mm.  The right adnexa has a smooth and shiny serosal surface and no lesions are identified.  Within the peritoneal lining on the posterior aspect of the uterus anterior to the rectum there are aggregates of pale firm nodules ranging from 1 to 6mm in maximal dimension in aggregate up to 24mm in maximal dimension.  The serosal surface of the large bowel is mostly smooth and shiny with patchy areas of haemorrhage (likely intraoperative).
Within the lateral wall of the lower sigmoid / upper rectum there is a firm palpable mass measuring 30 x 30 x 15mm.  Sectioning through this mass demonstrates a cystic cavity measuring 15mm in diameter with a pale fibrotic wall measuring 3mm thick.  The cyst cavity is lined by tan friable tissue.  This cavity appears separate to the bowel wall and separate from adjacent abundant diverticula.  Multiple diverticula are identified throughout the length of bowel, with overlying regular tan folds. No mucosal lesions are seen.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified within the attached fat.  No other nodules are identified.  Blocks: 1 to 3 - full LS through anterior body and cervix; 4 to 7 - full LS through posterior body and cervix; 8 to 14 - serial section of left adnexal tissue; 15 to 17 - representative right adnexa; 18 and 19 - sections through peritoneal nodules; 20 - proximal bowel resection margin; 21 - distal bowel resection margin; 22 to 24 - sections through bowel wall cystic nodule/mass; 25 - haemorrhagic area on bowel wall serosa ?endometriosis; 26 to 28- lymph nodes as seen.  (TO:AP/vo 18.5.70)
B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot; Falciform ligament&amp;quot;, consists of a nodular piece of fatty tissue measuring 34 x 30 x 12mm.  The tissue is partially coated in a thin peritoneal lining.  No macroscopic lesion is identified on sectioning.  RS 2 blocks.
C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Proximal and distal donut&amp;quot;, consists of two unoriented loops of mucosa with attached sutures and staples measuring 20 x 18 x 15mm and 20 x 17 x 10mm.  The mucosa is uniform and tan.  No masses are identified.  Donuts are arbitrarily inked blue and black.  Each donut serially sliced and stapled predominantly found in the donut inked black.  AE.
Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - one donut; 3 &amp;amp; 4 - other donut.
D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Appendix&amp;quot;, consists of a vermiform appendix measuring 63 x 8mm with mesoappendix to a depth of 18mm.  The serosal surface is smooth and shiny.  The wall measures up to 2mm thick and the lumen contains tan material.  No focal lesions are identified.  All of appendix embedded.  Blocks: 1 - tip; 2 - mid TS; 3 - base.
E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of omental fat measuring 300 x 90 x 20mm.  The serosal surface is uniform and shiny and the fat is soft and lobulated.  No lesions are identified.  RS 3 blocks. (TO:AP/eh 21/4/69)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr I Noguera):
A.  The ectocervix and endocervix show no significant abnormality.  The endometrium is inactive.  The myometrium shows leiomyomas.  The uterine serosa shows endometriosis.  The right ovary and tube show no significant abnormality.  There is extensive endometriosis associated with an extensive giant cell reaction (consistent with previous surgery) on the posterior uterine peritoneal reflection, in the left paradnexal soft tissues, and the rectosigmoid serosa and fat.  Seven (7) negative colonic nodes are present.  Part of the left fallopian tube is identified.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
B, C, D &amp;amp; E.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A to E.  Extensive endometriosis and changes of previous surgery.  No residual carcinoma identified.
