SPR no: 80B471393V
MRN no: 8004713
Site_name: SWAN DISTRICTS HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report80B47139 (80B471393F) Mcshane, TERRANCE
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
MITCHELL HOSPITAL HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Left retroperitoneal ca, ?colonic origin.  Pelvic peritonectomy, omentum, gallbladder, en bloc left colon, spleen, left kidney, retroperitoneal muscle, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;OMENTUM, SPLEEN, LEFT KIDNEY, LEFT COLON, GALLBLADDER, BILATERAL TUBES + OVARIES, PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;.  Consists of omentum, gallbladder, en bloc left colon, spleen, left kidney, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes.  A short segment of bowel and multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue ?peritoneum.

Gallbladder measures 100mm in length with a maximum diameter of 50mm.  It is received intact.  No stones are found within the lumen.  The wall is up to 2mm thick.  Mucosa is granular green in appearance with yellow streaks.  At the neck of gallbladder is a lymph node 6mm maximum dimension.

(1  cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 2  body and fundus).

Omentum measures 330mm x 250mm x 25mm.  No suspicious areas are seen on palpation or sectioning.

(3  section of omentum).

Segment of colon 40mm in length with a maximum diameter of 45mm.  The serosa has a full thickness partial disruption measuring 15x5mm.  On opening, no other lesion is identified.  One margin is inked blue, the other black.

(4  sections of bowel with both margins and site of serosal disruption).

First ovary and fallopian tube, together weigh 79g.  Fallopian tube measures 35mm in length with a maximum diameter of 6mm.  There are multiple paratubal cysts less than 1mm to 1mm.  The attached ovarian mass is 70x50x45mm.  The surface is smooth.  On sectioning, the ovary, it shows a cystic mass filled with pultaceous yellow material intermixed with hair follicles.  There is one area that is focally thickened on the inner lining.

(5  first fallopian tube; 6&amp;amp;7  sections of first ovary cyst).

Second ovary and fallopian tube, together weigh 11g.  Fallopian tube measures 35mm in length with a maximum diameter of 8mm.  There is a large paratubal cyst measuring 20mm filled with clear serous fluid.  The ovary measures 30x15x12mm.  Surface is unremarkable.  On sectioning through the ovary, it has a firm normal appearing cut surface.

(8  second fallopian tube; 9  second ovary).

Left colon, spleen, left kidney received en bloc.  The colon is closely adherent to the spleen and the kidney.  It measures 390mm in length with a maximum diameter of 80mm proximally and 40mm distally (proximal to the site of adhesion the bowel is grossly dilated). There is a pedunculated polyp 8mm maximum dimension and 70mm from proximal margin.  The site of adhesion is 170mm from proximal margin and 115mm from distal margin.  Within this area, the mucosa is flattened and there is a mass underlying this area and involving the mesocolic fat.  The mass appears fibrous in nature with entrapped fat.  There is also a rough resection margin within which is muscle, this area is inked green and measures 60x40mm.  Within the mass in the area of fibrosis is a cyst measuring 40x30x30mm.  The lining of the cyst is focally calcified, but otherwise smooth.  The attached spleen measures 110x40x25.  The capsule is unremarkable.  On sectioning, the cut surface is brown with no focal or discrete lesions identified.  The attached kidney measures 100 superior to inferior x 50 medial to lateral x 60 mediolateral x 50 anterior to posterior.  There is attached ureter measuring 110 in length with a maximum diameter of 5mm.  The capsule of the kidney is anteriorly attached to the mesocolic fat at the area of fibrosis.  The renal parenchyma shows a possible cyst at the superior pole measuring 15mm maximum dimension.  The remainder of the parenchyma is otherwise unremarkable.  Proximal margin of bowel inked blue, distal black.

(10  margins of large bowel; 11  polyp; 12-16  one full face TS of bowel with underlying fibrous lesion; 17-19  section showing fibrous lesion in relation to bowel cyst within the lesion and kidney; 20  lesion in relation to kidney; 21  cyst at superior pole of kidney; 22  hilar vessels and ureter margins of kidney; 23&amp;amp;24  section showing spleen in relation to lesion [23  includes kidney]; 25  lesion including cyst within lesion and retroperitoneal muscle; 26  one possible node).

Pieces of fibrofatty tissue consistent with peritoneum, in aggregate measure 140x110x10mm.  Within this are firm sections consistent with the previously mentioned lesion.

(27&amp;amp;28  representative sections of firm areas within peritoneal tissue).  RS (M-28/MC 6/3/2067 km).

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr W Adham)
Histology shows a large deposit of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma which lies within retroperitoneal fat with invasion into adjacent colon, capsule of spleen and capsule of the left kidney with focal involvement of superficial cortex of the left kidney.  Within the segment of left colon, there is infiltration by adenocarcinoma through muscularis propria and submucosa and into mucosa where carcinoma infiltrates throughout existing normal mucosa. There is no evidence of pre-existing mucosal dysplasia or adenomatous polyp to identify a primary origin within the colon itself. There is a relatively widespread area of necrosis within the middle of the deposit where there is fibrosis and dystrophic microcalcification with associated necrosis of entrapped fat (? therapeutic effect).  There is however still a large volume of viable tumour.  Carcinoma focally extends to reach a free serosal surface adjacent to the capsule of the spleen. There is no direct invasion into the parenchyma of the spleen itself.  There is focal involvement of superficial cortex of the left kidney which is otherwise unremarkable. Some separate pieces of peritonealised serosal fat with adjacent smooth muscle of presumed muscularis propria are also infiltrated by adenocarcinoma. The adenocarcinoma has pale to clear cytoplasm. Immunostains show positivity for Cytokeratin 7 and 20 with weak staining also for CDX2.  ER, PAX8, GATA3 and TTF1 are also negative.  There is normal expression of mismatch repair proteins (MSH6, MLH1, MSH2, PMS2). This pattern of immunostains is more in keeping with a metastatic deposit from an upper GI, pancreatic or biliary tract origin than a typical colonic carcinoma with no origin from the colon identified in this specimen. The polyp identified within the colon has morphology in keeping with a juvenile polyp with no features of an adenoma present.  Otherwise the gallbladder shows no significant abnormality with no malignancy present within the cystic duct lymph node.  Both fallopian tubes are unremarkable. One ovary contains a dermoid cyst with no evidence of atypical or immature elements present. The other ovary is unremarkable.  Non involved areas of the kidney appear relatively unremarkable with mild arteriosclerosis.  The renal vein, artery and ureteric resection margins are unremarkable.  The spleen is otherwise unremarkable.  No evidence of malignancy is seen in two small mesocolic lymph nodes.  Carcinoma appears clear of local resection margins.

DIAGNOSIS:
OMENTUM, SPLEEN, LEFT KIDNEY, LEFT COLON AND GALLBLADDER, BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES, PERITONEAL DISEASE -
-LARGE DEPOSIT OF ADENOCARCINOMA IN RETROPERITONEAL FAT INVOLVING LEFT COLON, LEFT KIDNEY, SPLEEN.
-NO ORIGIN IDENTIFIED WITHIN COLON ? METASTASIS.
5/9/2067 ank
