SPR no: 95S886257B
MRN no: 9568862
Site_name: FLINDERS ISLAND MULTI PURPOSE CENTRE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Mucinous ovarian adenocarcinoma. Ca 125 12.
Additional information from system: Previous left oophorectomy reported at BULLI HOSPITAL Hospital reviewed at Phelps Dodge (95S88625) - Mucinous adenocarcinoma.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus and cervix&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix weighing 65g in total.  The uterus measures 85mm x 50mm x 30mm and has a roughened anterior serosal surface with adhesions over an area, 35 x 35mm.  The cervix measures 30 x 23mm with an unremarkable surface.  The endometrium measures up to 2mm thick and the myometrium measures up to 70mm thick.  Within the posterior myometrium there is a circumscribed pale whorled lesion with focal calcification measuring 13mm in maximal dimension.  No other lesions are identified.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - full longitudinal section through anterior body and cervix; 4 to 7 - full longitudinal sections through posterior body and cervix including calcified ? fibroid.
B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of omental fat, 250 x 85 x 25mm.  There are patchy areas of adhesions measuring up to 50mm in length.  No masses are seen on sectioning.  RS 3 blocks (including areas of adhesions).
C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Small bowel nodule&amp;quot;, consists of an irregular piece of pale fibrous tissue, 6 x 3 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.
D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right infundibular pelvic ligament&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of grey and shiny fibrous tissue, 25 x 15 x 6mm and a separate piece of fat, 30 x 18 x 8mm.  No masses are seen on sectioning.
Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - fibrous tissue; 3 - fat.  AE.
E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left external iliac lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fatty tissue, 50 x 14 x 5mm.  Four possible lymph nodes are identified measuring 6 to 25mm in maximal dimension.
Blocks: 1 - two lymph nodes; 2 - one lymph node in five sections; 3 - one lymph node and remaining fat.  AE.
F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left paracolic gutter nodule&amp;quot;, consists of a piece a fibrofatty tissue, 38 x 28 x 16mm.  A pale and cystic lesion is identified measuring 12mm in maximal dimension.  The cut surface demonstrates a variegated fatty and haemorrhagic appearance with focal areas of possible fat necrosis to a depth of 8mm.  Serially sliced and all embedded in 5 blocks.
G.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left anterior parietal peritoneum&amp;quot;, consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 45 x 22 x 10mm in aggregate.  The surface appears smooth and shiny.  No masses are identified.  AE.
Blocks: 1 - smaller piece; 2 &amp;amp; 3 - larger piece.
H.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Small bowel adhesion&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of pale fibrous tissue, 8 x 4 x 2mm.  AE 1 block.  (TO:AP/eh 11/1/66)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Y Fernow):
The previous review 95S88625 is noted.
A.  The ectocervix and endocervix show no significant abnormality.  The endometrium is proliferative consistent with an oestrogenic stimulus.  The myometrium shows a leiomyoma.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
B.  Sections show small scattered adhesions.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.   Sections show adhesions, scattered foreign body giant cells and endosalpingiosis.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
D.  Sections show adhesions, endosalpingiosis, and a proximal tube.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
E.  Four lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy.
F.  Sections show extensive foreign body giant cell reaction to suture material, adhesions and fat necrosis.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
G.   Sections show adhesions and tiny foci of probable mucin which is acellular.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
H.   Sections show adhesions.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

DIAGNOSIS:
A to H.  No evidence of malignancy.
