SPR no: 10L407622M
MRN no: 10195149
Site_name: COLAC AREA HEALTH
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report10L40762 (10L407622M) KREBS, ALEXANDER
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
MOUNT GAMBIER AND DISTRICTS HEALTH SERVICE AND SUTHERLAND HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Small bowel.  Peritoneum.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;SMALL BOWEL AND PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;.  Multiple pieces of small bowel received in multiple ragged pieces in aggregate 220x180x50mm.  All show similar changes with caking of the serosa and mesocolic fat by a pale white tumour deposit.  Due to the nature of the specimen it is difficult to ascertain margins.  The tumour involves the attached mesentery and serosa.  In one of the pieces, the small bowel is impacted by faecal material and within area the mucosa is denuded.  The remainder of the small bowel mucosa is otherwise unremarkable.

(1-4 sections of tumour in relation to mucosa mesentery and serosa; 5 section of tumour received separated ?affecting peritoneum; 6 denuded small bowel mucosa).  RS (M-6/MC 29/4/2069 nh)

MICROSCOPIC: (Dr. E Tuukanen)
Sections show small intestine with thick serosal and mesenteric deposits of epithelioid malignant mesothelioma. There is focal tumour necrosis. Individual tumour cells have an epithelioid morphology with a high nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio, coarse clumped chromatin, prominent nucleoli, and indistinct cell boundaries. Tumour cells infiltrate as cords, single cells, sheets, occasional tubules and pseudopapillary structures. Lymphovascular invasion is noted. Focally, tumour infiltrates minimally into the outer layer of the muscularis propria of the small intestine. Tumour involves the diathermied serosal and mesenteric margins of several tissue piece (Blocks 3&amp;amp;4), over a broad front, including the diathermied margin of malignant serosal adhesions. Mitotic count is 10/10hpf.
The separate tissue piece shows extensive malignant epithelioid mesothelioma with areas of tumour necrosis, and small amount of adjacent striated muscle, possibly representing part of a malignant adhesion. Tumour extends to the diathermied margin of this tissue piece over a broad front.
Immunohistochemical stains for Calretinin, HBME-1, and WT-1 are positive in the tumour cells, in keeping with mesothelioma. No sarcomatoid areas are identified.
The separate piece of bowel showing faecal impaction has a very thin muscularis propria, and mucosa which is flattened and shows no Paneth cells, an appearance suggestive of large intestine. However, clinical correlation is required. No tumour involvement of this bowel segment is seen.


SUMMARY:
SMALL BOWEL AND PERITONEAL DISEASE:
- EPITHELIOID MALIGNANT MESOTHELIOMA.
29/4/2067 cy
