SPR no: 35F744600B
MRN no: 0736113
Site_name: COLAC AREA HEALTH
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report35F74460 (35F744600B) MAO, Noel Wilburn
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
LITHGOW HOSPITAL AND SUTHERLAND HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Appendix tumour with PMP - Peritonectomy.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;OMENTUM, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY, GALLBLADDER, RIGHT DIAPHRAGM, PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;.  Received in one specimen jar multiple tissue fragments including:

A right hemicolectomy consists of a terminal ileum 55x20mm, caecum, ascending and part of transverse colon 225x50mm, mesentery and mesocolon up to 55mm and a grossly enlarged appendix 65x30x25mm.  The serosal surface overlying the appendix is ragged, haemorrhagic and covered by mucoid material.  Scattered ragged rough areas are identified at the serosal surface of the attached mesentery and serosal surfaces of caecum.  The appendix is serially sliced. The distal 44mm is distended and grossly filled with mucinous material dissecting the underlying mesoappendix fat and present on the free serosal surface.  The wall is thickened up to 7mm focally.  The proximal edge of the appendix is unremarkable. The adjacent bowel shows one polyp in the ascending colon 5mm located 80mm of the nearest proximal margin.  No other polyps or tumours are identified.

(1 proximal and distal margin; 2 polyp; 3&amp;amp;4 each one LS appendix orifice with adjacent caecum; 5-13 each one TS appendix from proximal to distal; 14&amp;amp;15 one TS with block 14 tumour block for tissue bank; 16 one TS tip; 17&amp;amp;18 tip each two LS; 19 ragged peritoneum surface; 20 apical lymph node; 21-23 each ?five lymph nodes)

A segment of large bowel covered by peritoneum (? sigmoid) measures 115x30mm with attached mesocolon up to 55mm.  There is a ragged nodular haemorrhagic area measures 25x20mm on the serosal surface located 30mm of the nearest margin.  Multiple diverticula 10-20 are identified along the specimen.  At least one shows possible perforation into the overlying serosa at the previously mentioned nodular area.

(24&amp;amp;25 each one LS peripheral edge; 26&amp;amp;27 each one TS ? perforated diverticulum at haemorrhagic serosa; 28 uncomplicated diverticulum ; 29 ? four lymph nodes)

A segment of small bowel 40x17mm with attached mesentery up to 15mm. The outer and cut surface are unremarkable.

(30&amp;amp;31 LS of each peripheral edge; 32 TS mid)

A gallbladder 75x35mm. The outer surface is ragged and haemorrhagic.  The wall is up to 3mm thick.  The mucosal surfaces are green and granular.  No calculi are identified.

(33 cystic duct and TS neck with lymph node [8mm]; 34 LS body and TS fundus)

A fibrofatty piece of tissue consistent with omentum 400x150x50mm.  Multiple mucinous deposits are identified. The cut surface is fatty with no discrete lesions.
(35-37 RS omental involvement)

Multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue consistent with peritoneal strip 200x175x70mm in aggregate.  The glistening surfaces are grossly involved with disseminated mucinous deposits.  Within the fragments there are separate mucinous material.

(38&amp;amp;39 peritoneal strips involvement; 40 separate mucin).  RS (M-40)

B.  &amp;quot;MASS ON SIGMOID&amp;quot;.  Multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue 40x27x25mm. The outer surface is focally ragged. The cut surface is fatty across the specimen. The outer surface is inked blue.  Serially sliced.  AE (M-3/ZH 26/5/2067 ank)

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr I Lou)
A. Sections of the right hemicolectomy specimen demonstrate an appendix in which there is fibrous obliteration of the proximal appendix. The distal appendix is dilated and expanded by mucin with loss of much of the mucosal surface. In several blocks, there is residual epithelium present that consists of a villiform architecture with columnar mucinous epithelium showing low-grade cytologic appearances. No invasive growth pattern is identified. There is rupture of the wall of the appendix with extrusion of mucus onto the appendiceal serosal surface with fibrous organisation. In addition, strips of low-grade columnar mucinous epithelium are seen floating within the extra-appendiceal mucus pools on the serosal surface of the appendix.
Sections of proximal and distal resection margins of the hemicolectomy specimen are unremarkable and the mucosa of the ileum and large bowel are unremarkable apart from the presence of a hyperplastic/serrated-type polyp of the ascending colon.
14 lymph nodes are identified in the mesocolon and show reactive changes only.
Serosal adhesions with fibrous organisation are seen around the caecum and appendix.
Sections of the second described segment of large bowel show multiple diverticula including diverticular inflammation, diverticular abscess, and focal diverticular perforation with acute serosal inflammation. The resection margins are unremarkable. Two lymph nodes are identified and show reactive changes only.
Sections of the segment of small bowel show normal mucosa submucosa muscularis propria. There is acute serosal inflammation with serosal adhesions and a small amount of acellular extracellular mucus on the serosal surface with accompanying acute inflammatory reaction. The resection margins appear unremarkable.
Sections of the gallbladder are unremarkable.
The sections of the omentum show focal serosal deposits of acellular mucus.
Sections of the separate piece of fibrofatty/peritoneal tissue demonstrate organisation of acellular mucus. In a separate detached fragment of mucinous material a small group of low-grade columnar mucinous epithelium is identified within the mucus.
B. Sections show fatty tissue in which there is a very small portion of large intestinal diverticulum. The remainder of the tissue shows fibrosis and chronic inflammation and several small lymph nodes show reactive changes are seen.
Comment: The right hemicolectomy specimen demonstrates a low-grade appendiceal mucinous neoplasm with rupture and extracellular mucus with epithelial cells identified on the peritoneal surfaces of the appendix. Peritoneal mucus is seen including focal low grade mucinous epithelium (Low-grade mucinous carcinoma peritonei (PSOGI classification); pseudomyxoma peritonei with low-grade histology). Clinical correlation is recommended.
SUMMARY:
A. RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY AND PERITONECTOMY
- LOW-GRADE APPENDICEAL MUCINOUS NEOPLASM WITH LOW-GRADE CARCINOMA PERITONEI (PSOGI CLASSIFICATION).
- SIGMOID COLON - DIVERTICULAR DISEASE WITH RUPTURE AND DIVERTICULAR ABSCESS.
B. &amp;quot;MASS ON SIGMOID&amp;quot;
- FIBROSIS AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATION - SEE TEXT.
28/4/2069 cy
