SPR no: 93L610263Z
MRN no: 9346102
Site_name: MORANBAH HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
BRCA1 gene mutation, post breast cancer.  Prophylactic BSO.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Endometrial curettings&amp;quot;, consists of scant curettings, 4 x 3 x 1mm in aggregate.  AE 1 block.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right fallopian tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a fallopian tube, 42 x 10 x 8mm, and ovary, 26 x 18 x 12mm.  No significant abnormality is identified.
Blocks: 1 - LS complete fimbrial end fallopian tube; 2 &amp;amp; 3 - TS remaining fallopian tube; 4 to 6 - ovary.  Fallopian tube and ovary AE.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left fallopian tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a fallopian tube, 38 x 10 x 8mm, and ovary, 29 x 24 x 9mm.  There is a haemorrhagic cyst within the right ovary, 15mm.  The fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality.  Blocks: 1 - LS complete fimbrial end; 2 &amp;amp; 3 - TS remaining fallopian tube; 4 to 6 - ovary.  Fallopian tube and ovary AE.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of omental tissue, 50 x 45 x 25mm.  The serosal surface is smooth and shiny.  No lymph nodes or tumour identified.  RS 3 blocks.
(TO:JB/rs 14/2/67)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Z Hallum):
A.  The curettings consist of blood and scant detached fragments of glandular epithelium.  There is insufficient intact endometrial tissue present for assessment.

B.  The sections of the right fallopian tube and ovary show no significant abnormality.  The entire fallopian tube and ovary have been embedded and there is no evidence of malignancy.

C.  The sections of the left fallopian tube and ovary show no significant abnormality.  There is a single small non-necrotising granuloma in the paratubal soft tissue, of doubtful clinical significance.  The entire fallopian tube and ovary have been embedded and there is no evidence of malignancy.

D.  The sections of the omentum show no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Endometrial curettings:  Insufficient intact endometrium for assessment.

B.  Right fallopian tube and ovary:  No significant abnormality.

C.  Left fallopian tube and ovary:  No significant abnormality.

D.  Omentum:  No significant abnormality.
