SPR no: 35J251973C
MRN no: 5848337
Site_name: MITCHELL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report35J25197 (35J251973C) Rayes, DEAN
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
EMERALD HOSPITAL AND SUTHERLAND HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Cystic lesion on spleen ?recurrent ovarian Ca ?benign.

1.  Spleen frozen section, tail of pancreas.  Suture marking edge of splenic cyst cavity.
2.  Plaque on left diaphragm.

Ovarian cancer, head of pancreas/duodenum, tail of pancreas/spleen, diaphragm.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;SPLEEN + TAIL OF PANCREAS&amp;quot;.  Spleen 85x50x40mm, weighing 82g with an irregular cyst 25x15x15mm, opening to the outer surface containing a clot.  One TS taken for frozen section.

F/S:  &amp;quot;Malignant cells present + psammoma bodies, in keeping with prior history of serous ca&amp;quot;.  Result was given by phone to the Dr. Mourning Tester (Anaesthetist) on 15/02/2070 at 12:10 by Dr.  I Larman and     I. Flesch.

Post-fixation Assessment:  The spleen measures 85x50x40mm ,  The tail of pancreatic tissue 50x30x20mm with staple line at the resection margin.  The cyst is partially defective anteriorly.  The serosal surface is inked green.  The pancreatic resection margin is inked blue. The specimen is serially sliced into 16 slices the cut surface confirms the cyst  25x20x15 mm with thick fibrous capsule invading into the adjacent splenic parenchyma which is otherwise brown and unremarkable.

There are areas of irregularities over the splenic capsule with focally forming firm white bands into the splenic parenchyma.

There is a possible bulky lymph node 16x12x12mm at the splenic hilum extending from slice 10 to slice 12, which abuts the pancreatic parenchyma.  It has friable white and haemorrhagic cut surface and it measures   It is located 5mm of the pancreas resection margin.

(1  frozen; 2  splenic parenchyma superior with superior irregularity; 3  fibrous band over splenic capsule slice 6 ; 4&amp;amp;5  full face of cyst; 6&amp;amp;7  splenic hilar ?involved lymph node with adjacent pancreatic parenchyma in slices 10 and 11; 8&amp;amp;9  pancreas parenchyma uninvolved in slices 13 and 14).  RS (9-9).

B.  &amp;quot;PLAQUE ON LEFT DIAPHRAGM&amp;quot;.  Irregular plaque of tissue 35x15x7mm.  Two TS taken as one chunk for frozen section.

F/S:  &amp;quot;Malignant cells present + psammoma bodies, in keeping with prior history of serous ca&amp;quot;.  Result was given by phone to the Dr. Gettinger Tester (Anaesthetist) on 16/03/2068 at 12:10 by Dr.  I Panter and Dr. I. Letarte.

(1  frozen; 2  remainder tissue).  AE (6-2).

C.  &amp;quot;HEAD OF PANCREAS AND DUODENUM, TAIL OF PANCREAS, SPLEEN, DIAPHRAGM, A WHIPPLE PROCEDURE&amp;quot;.  Consists of part of distal stomach 30mm in length and 40mm in circumference,  duodenum 80x20mm with attached mesentery up to 20mm.  There is a head and body of pancreas 45x40x30mm.  The anterior surface of the pancreas and distal stomach/proximal duodenum  have firm white area (?tumour deposit) over 10x10mm.  The uncinate resection margin is inked yellow.  The vascular groove margin is inked red.  The neck/body resection margin is inked green.  The anterior surface is inked blue and the posterior is inked black.  The specimen is serially sliced from proximal to distal perpendicular to the long axis of the duodenum into 13 slices.

The cut surface shows a tumour with firm white cut surface extending from slice 4 to slice 7 measuring 18x14x10 mm. It is arising from the serosal surface to invade the anterior wall of the duodenum, pancreatic parenchyma.  This lesion is located 5mm of the vascular groove margin, 15mm of the nearest uncinate margin, 12mm of the pancreatic neck margin, 24mm of proximal and 40mm of the distal resection margin.  The remainder pancreatic parenchyma is lobulated and appears unremarkable.

(1  common bile duct resection margin ; 2  TS common bile duct distal; 3  uncinate margin; 4&amp;amp;5  body resection margin serially sliced, multiple LS; 6  proximal stomach margin; 7  distal duodenal margin; 8  lesion in slice 4; 9&amp;amp;10  lesion in slice 5; 11-13  full face of slice 6 lesion into pancreatic parenchyma; 14&amp;amp;15  continuous dense ?lesion involving the anterior soft tissue; 16&amp;amp;17  continuous lesion in the anterior soft tissue and ampulla; 18  ampulla [no margins]; 19  one lymph node posterior pancreas trisected; 20  four lymph nodes; 21  four lymph nodes).

Received multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue with attached skeletal muscle (diaphragmatic strips) measuring 800x50x35mm in aggregate.  Firm white areas are identified on the cut surface.

(22-24  representatives).  RS (M-24/ZH 14/3/2070 km).

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr I Kahan)
A.  Histology shows a deposit of metastatic high grade serous carcinoma which is found over the surface of the spleen but also extending into the splenic parenchyma. The tumour is characterised by broad based papillary structures covered by high grade atypical epithelium with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm and scattered calcified psammoma bodies.  Immunostains show positivity for Cytokeratin 7, WT1, focally for P53 with moderate intensity staining for ER (80% 2+) and PAX8, all consistent with primary ovarian serous origin.  Over the surface of the spleen carcinoma focally extends to reach a diathermied surface (uncertain if this is a true resection margin or not).  Additionally there is also evidence of involvement of 2 of 4 hilar splenic lymph nodes which lie close to the tail of the pancreas with no direct infiltration of the pancreatic tissue itself.  Part of the lymph node architecture of the capsule appears effaced by fibrosis and possibly  early extranodal extension cannot be entirely excluded.  There is widespread fibrosis in this area with deposits of haemosiderin and some sclerosis in one of the deposits suggesting possible minor response to chemotherapy.

B.  Histology shows fibrous connective tissue with skeletal muscle consistent with diaphragm which shows moderate cellularity infiltration by high grade serous carcinoma. Carcinoma extends to surface diathermied margins.

C.  Histology shows a further focus of metastatic high grade serous carcinoma which is found within soft tissue lying between the head of the pancreas and adjacent duodenum.  At this site there is local infiltration by carcinoma into the muscularis propria of the duodenum and focally  into some atrophic fibrotic pancreas with carcinoma also extending to the anterior pancreatic surface margin (may not be a true margin).  At this site of involvement there are large numbers of foreign body multinucleated histiocytic giant cells, some of which contain some foreign refractive material consistent with the site of prior surgery.  The carcinoma also directly invades one peripancreatic lymph node and partially surrounds and compresses a medium calibre duct on the edge of atrophic fibrotic pancreatic tissue surrounded by carcinoma and inflammatory cell infiltration.  No definite perineural infiltration is identified.  In  total there are six out of fourteen peripancreatic lymph nodes involved by metastatic serous carcinoma.  Elsewhere the pancreas away from the area of involvement shows no significant abnormality.  The ampulla is unremarkable.  The proximal gastric and distal duodenal margins and common bile duct margins are not involved by malignancy.  Separate fragments of skeletal muscle and fibrous tissue (? diaphragm) are not involved by malignancy.

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  SPLEEN AND TAIL OF PANCREAS -
-METASTATIC HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA WITHIN SPLEEN AND PERISPLENIC LYMPH NODES.
B.  PLAQUE ON LEFT DIAPHRAGM -
-METASTATIC SEROUS CARCINOMA.
C.  HEAD OF PANCREAS, DUODENUM, TAIL OF PANCREAS, SPLEEN, DIAPHRAGM, WHIPPLE&amp;apos;S PROCEDURE -
-METASTATIC HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA INFILTRATING DUODENUM, PANCREAS WITH METASTATIC CARCINOMA IN 6 OF 14 LYMPH NODES.
17/3/2068 ank
