SPR no: 18K018129E
MRN no: 10260280
Site_name: NARROGIN HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report18H00564 (18K018129E) STEINMULLER, MAMMIE Terence
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
BATHURST BASE HOSPITAL AND SUTHERLAND HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Omental nodule from peritoneum.
Frozen section.
Recurrent colon Ca with liver and peritoneal metastasis.
Segment IV liver.
Omentum/peritoneal disease.
Stoma.
Hilus.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;OMENTUM NODULE&amp;quot;. Consists of a round nodule, 15x10x10mm. Cut surface is red, gey and firm. 2xTS taken for frozen section and smears were done.

F/S: &amp;quot;Metastatic adenocarcinoma&amp;quot; per phone to Edwin on 20/6/70 by Dr. S. Wiliams.

(1 frozen; 2 remainder tissue). AE (M-2)

B. &amp;quot;LIVER SEGMENT 4&amp;quot;. A segmental liver resection consists of cancellous surface, 75x60mm, with underlying tissue to a depth of 25mm. The specimen weighs 54g. The capsular surface contains fatty tissue. The margins are inked blue. The specimen is serially into 16 slices. The cut surface reveals two discrete hard white lesions with central areas of necrosis. The largest in Slices 2-8, measuring 28x25x13mm. Located 3mm of the nearest inked resection margin. The smaller lesion is located in Slices 11&amp;amp;12, 6x6x6mm abutting the inked margin macroscopically. A large vessel with areas of calcification is identified in the central of specimen. The adjacent liver parenchyma is yellow and pale.

(1 two LS, Slice 1 [peripheral edge]; 2&amp;amp;3 Slice 4 [Lesion 1]; 4 mid-Slice 6 [Lesion 1]; 5 mid-Slice 11 [Lesion 2]; 6 large vessel in Slice 13; 7 two LS, Slice 16 [other peripheral edge]). RS (M-17 [please see block diagram]).

C. &amp;quot;OMENTUM, PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;. Multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue consistent with omentum, measuring 210x150x50mm. Received within the same jar with multiple fibrous pieces of tissue (peritoneal strips), measuring 160x160x30mm in aggregate. Multiple firm, white deposits are identified on the omentum and the deep peritoneal strips, measuring 5-12mm in maximum diameter occupying about 5-10% of the submitted tissue.

(1&amp;amp;2 peritoneal disease [2 tumour block for tissue banking]; 3-5 representative omentum). RS (M-5)

D. &amp;quot;STOMA&amp;quot;. A stoma opening, 30x25mm, with a rim of skin up to 4mm thick. The underlying tissue contains two limbs of bowel, 40x20mm, and 65x25mm. No definite mucosal lesions are identified.

(1 LS across shorter limb; 2 further stoma skin of shorter limb; 3&amp;amp;4 continuous slice, LS across longer limb). RS (M-4)

E. &amp;quot;HILUS&amp;quot;. A piece of tissue including segment of liver, measuring 70x35x20mm. The cut surface reveals a pale, yellow and nodular ( ? cirrhotic) liver tissue with adjacent firm and fatty soft tissue.

(1-3 soft and fatty tissue; 4&amp;amp;5 liver tissue). RS (M-5/ZH 23/6/2067 cy)

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr. S Spradlin)
A. Paraffin sections confirm a nodule of metastatic, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma within lobulated fibroadipose tissue. The tumour is set in desmoplastic stroma, and shows extensive tumour necrosis.
B. Sections of the liver segment show two dominant nodules of metastatic, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with a similar appearance to that in Specimen A. The largest, 28mm in extent, shows extensive tumour necrosis, and has a glandular and cribriform architecture. It is 2mm from the closest inked excision margin of the liver. It also shows invasion into adjacent fatty tissue which appears adherent to the liver capsule (malignant adhesion).
The smaller deposit is a 6mm area of similar appearing metastatic adenocarcinoma, which is 1.2mm from the closest surgical resection margin. Overlying this smaller lesion are   malignant adhesions between the liver capsule and overlying lobulated adipose tissue. A single small lymph node within the adipose tissue shows no involvement.
C. Sections of the peritoneal strips show multiple nodules of metastatic adenocarcinoma with extensive tumour necrosis, similar to that in Specimens A&amp;amp;B. Sections of the omentum show two tiny deposits of similar metastatic adenocarcinoma within the lobulated adipose tissue.
D. Sections of the stoma show junction of skin and bowel wall. The mucosa is partially denuded, and shows some possible mild ischaemic changes focally. There is no evidence of malignancy in the representative tissue examined.
E. Sections show fibrofatty tissue containing multiple deposits of moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma with a similar appearance to that in specimens A, B, and C.. A deposit of carcinoma is also present within medium sized thick walled vessels. Sections of liver show metastatic adenocarcinoma, with malignant adhesions within fibrous tissue between the liver and what appears to be some adrenal cortical tissue.
Comment (Specimens A,B,C&amp;amp;E): The metastatic adenocarcinoma has an appearance in keeping with the clinical impression of a colonic primary site.
SUMMARY:
A. OMENTUM NODULE:
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.
B. LIVER SEGMENT 4:
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.
C. OMENTUM AND PERITONEAL DISEASE:
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.
D. STOMA:
- STOMA WITH REACTIVE CHANGES.
E. HILUS:
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.
24/3/2068 cy
