SPR no: 22V011505B
MRN no: 2280115
Site_name: GOWER WILSON MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Caecal carcinoma + multiple colonic polyps.  Subtotal colectomy.


MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Subtotal colectomy&amp;quot;, consists of a segment of large bowel (720mm in length x 80mm circumference), terminal ileum (60mm in length x 54mm circumference), and pericolic fibroadipose tissue (up to 100mm width).  The appendix is not received.  The surgical margins are inked blue.  The serosal surface appears smooth and shiny.  On sectioning, there is a tan, nodular caecal tumour, 47 x 46 x 18mm, partly involving the ileocaecal valve.  The tumour extends to a depth of 20mm into the adventitia.  The tumour is 45mm from the proximal surgical margin, 600mm from the distal surgical margin, and 100mm from the apical vascular tie.  The remaining bowel mucosa is studded by no fewer than 40 sessile and pedunculated polyps, 4 to 13mm in maximum dimension.  The polyps are concentrated within the proximal large bowel, and decrease dramatically in number towards the distal large bowel.  The closest polyps are 45mm and 40mm from the proximal and distal surgical margins, respectively.  Lymph nodes are identified in the pericolic fibroadipose tissue.
Blocks: 1 - LS proximal margin; 2 - LS distal margin; 3 to 6 - LS tumour, ?deepest invasion (6 - MSI); 7 - LS representative caecal polyps; 8 &amp;amp; 9 - representative ascending polyps; 10 - single transverse polyp, bisected; 11 - representative  transverse colon polyps; 12 - representative distal aspect polyps; 13 - apical vascular margin, apical lymph nodes as seen; 14 - one lymph node, trisected; 15 - one lymph node, ?involved; 16 to 19 - lymph nodes as seen.  (TO:JB/eh 9/10/69)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr H Weder):
Synoptic Report for Large Bowel Carcinoma
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:  Caecum
Maximum tumour diameter:  47mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  45mm (proximal)
Tumour perforation:  No

Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS

Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate

Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:  Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not applicable

Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:  14
Number of lymph nodes involved:  1

pN1a	Metastases in 1 regional LN

Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent

Histologically confirmed distant metastas
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically

Background abnormalities/other comments
- There are multiple tubular adenomas with low grade dysplasia.

Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour

Response to neoadjuvent therapy (Modified Ryan scheme)
Not applicable

Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
The block best for molecular genetic testing is:  6

Summary &amp;#8211; TNM 7th Edition
pT3     pN1a     pMX     R0
DIAGNOSIS:
Subtotal colectomy - Adenocarcinoma.
