SPR no: 46H596219W
MRN no: 10535929
Site_name: ATHERTON HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
60 year old female with peritoneal deposits and pelvic mass causing constriction of sigmoid colon. Widespread peritoneal disease.  Frozen section high grade serous.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Cervix uterus bilateral tube ovaries&amp;quot;, consists of a distorted uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries with attached bowel weighing 226g in total.  The uterus measures 70 x 35 x 30mm and the ectocervix measures 30 x 25mm with adherent segment of bowel 180mm in length. On the posterior aspect of the uterus, there is a pale indurated area between the bowel and uterus serosa, inked blue and one section of this region was sent for frozen section.  On sectioning, the segment of bowel is firmly attached to the uterus and ovaries. The endometrium is 1mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 15mm in maximum thickness. The bowel mucosa, endometrium and myometrium are unremarkable. The right and left fallopian tubes are both 40mm in length and 4mm in maximum diameter. The right ovary measures 40 x 25 x 25mm.  The left ovary measures 70 x 20 x 20mm and has a cystic cavity.  Blocks: 1 - frozen section ; 2 - two LS distal margin bowel; 3 - LS of proximal bowel margin; 4 to 6 - full longitudinal section of anterior uterus and cervix; 7 to 9 - TS of entire right fallopian tube (block 7 LS of fimbriae); 10 to 14 - TS of entire right ovary; 15 - right ovary with attached bowel; 16 &amp;amp; 17 - composite sections of full longitudinal section of posterior uterus with attached bowel; 18 &amp;amp; 19 - longitudinal section of posterior uterus with bowel; 20 - left ovary with attached bowel; 21 - bisected LS of left fimbriae; 22 - three TS of left fallopian tube; 23 &amp;amp; 24 - entire left ovary; 25 to 28 - full LS of anterior uterus; 29 to 32 - full LS of posterior left uterus; 33 to 34 - possible right ovary.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
High grade serous (previously via Anaesthetist).
Result phoned to Prof M Apuzzo by Dr M Gruse at 10:50am on 20/07/67.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of 180 x 60 x 30mm of omentum with a 30 x 25 x 25mm pale nodule. There are multiple pale nodules ranging in size from 10mm to 25mm.  Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - composite sections of largest nodule; 3 to 5 - RS of omentum with nodules.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Paraduodenum&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of firm fibrofatty tissue measuring 20 x 20 x 6mm.  The specimen is bisected and AE 1 block.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Peripancreatic lymph nodes&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 50 x 40 x 20mm.  There are multiple nodules within the fat ranging from 5mm to 10mm in length.  Additional five blocks added.  AE 8 blocks.  Blocks: 1 -largest lymph node trisected; blocks 2 to 3 - lymph nodes as seen.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Distal ileum and right colon&amp;quot;, consists of a segment of bowel consisting of  ileum with attached caecum and ascending colon.  The ileum measures 300mm in length and 40mm in maximum circumference.  The caecum and ascending colon measures 80mm in length and 85mm in maximum circumference.  The mesocolon measures 25mm in width.  The appendix measures 10 x 5mm.  There are multiple nodules on the serosa surface ranging from 3mm to 6mm.  The closest nodule to the proximal margin is 20mm and the closest nodule to the distal margin is 10mm.  The mucosa of the small and large bowel appears unremarkable.  There is a stricture measuring 15 x 3mm in the small bowel.  The segment of bowel before and after the stricture is 40mm in circumference.  Blocks: 1 - LS of proximal margin; 2 - LS of distal margin; 3 to 8 -TS of stricture from proximal to distal (block 5 &amp;amp; 6 are composite sections; 7 &amp;amp; 8 composite sections); 9 - LS of tip of appendix with TS of body; 10 - TS of base of appendix; 11 - RS nodules on small bowel; 12 - RS nodules on mesocolon; 13 - RS nodules on bowel with attached mesocolon; 14 - one lymph node bisected; 15 - three lymph nodes; 16 - four possible ;  17 - four possible lymph nodes; 18 - three possible lymph nodes; 19 - four possible lymph nodes; 20 - three possible lymph nodes.

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Gastrectomy&amp;quot;, consists of an open piece of stomach with a partial incision measuring 75 x 75 x 20mm.  There is a staple line denoted as surgical margin, inked blue. The serosa has multiple nodules measuring 4mm in diameter.  The mucosa is unremarkable.  No erosions or ulceration noted.  In the partially open section there is a 13mm thickened pale area that does not appear to extend  into the mucosa.    Blocks: 1 to 8 - RS of thickened pale area (block 1 &amp;amp; 2 composite sections; 3 &amp;amp; 4 - composite sections; 5 &amp;amp; 6 - composite sections; 7 &amp;amp; 8 - composite sections); 9 - LS of margin.

G.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Proximal donut&amp;quot;, consists of a donut shaped piece of mucosa measuring 20 x 15 x 10mm.  There is a single nylon suture.  The specimen is inked blue and radially sectioned from suture site.  1 &amp;amp; 2 - radial sections of proximal donut.  AE 2 blocks.

H.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Distal donut&amp;quot;, consists of a 20 x 12 x 10mm segment of bowel in a donut.  There is a staple across the donut.  The specimen is inked blue and radially sliced.  Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - radial sections of distal donut.  AE 2 blocks. (TO:RL/eh/rs 17/4/69)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr M Benzschawel):
A.  Sections show uterus, cervix, right and left fallopian tubes, right and left ovaries and  a segment of colon (presumably sigmoid) which adherent to each ovary as well as the and posterior aspect of uterus.

The tumour is an extensive high grade serous carcinoma. The tumour extensively involves both the right and left ovaries (eg. Blocks 15 and 20 respectively), including surface involvement.  The carcinoma contiguously invades right and left paraovarian fibromuscular tissue and results in malignant adhesions between the right ovary, fimbrial end of right fallopian tube and colon (block A15).  Malignant adhesions also  connect the left ovary with colon (Block 20) and  posterior uterus with  colon (block 20).  The carcinoma invades into the outer myometrium and extensively invades the colonic serosa and subserosa.  The large bowel mucosa is unremarkable.   The endometrium is essentially inactive. The ectocervix and endocervix are unremarkable and uninvolved.


The right and left fallopian tubes show multiple foci high grade serous carcinoma in situ (STIC)(eg.blocks 9 AND 21 respectively)as well as detached nests and papilliform clustes within the lumens of each fallopian tube. The in-situ foci show diffuse P53 immunoexpression and a high Ki67 proliferation index.

The serous carcinokma composed of nests and sheets of moderately pleomorphic cells with round to oval nuclei and conspicious nuceoli . Occasional tumour cells with smudged chromatin are seen.   The nests of cells show slit like spaces and occasional glandular lumina.  A sieve like pattern of growth is seen in the ovaries.  itoses are easily identified and there is patchy necrosis.

B.  Sections of omentum show extensive infiltration by high grade serous carcinoma. The carcinoma is also present on the serosal surface and with serosal line clefts.  Four lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/4).

C.  Sections show fibroadipose tissue which is extensively infiltrated by  high grade serous carcinoma. Serious carcinoma is present at diathermied surfaces.

D.  Sections show fibroadipose tissue which is extensively infiltrated by  high grade serous carcinoma. There is focal lymphovascular invasion.  Two of four lymph nodes show metastatic serous carcinoma (2/4).  The deposits measure 0.5mm and 1mm.

E.  Sections of ileum show extensive high grade serous carcinoma involving the mesentery, serosal surface,  subserosa, with patchy invasion of the muscularis propria.  Tumour also involves the mesocolon, serosal surface of the large bowel and invades the colonic muscularis propria.  The serosa, subserosa and muscularis of the appendix are also involved.  The small and large bowel mucosa are unremarkable. Two of nine lymph nodes contain metastatic serous carcinoma. The deposits measure up to 2.5mm.   The ileal and colonic margins are free of tumour.

F.  Sections show extensive high grade serous carcinoma involving the serosa, subserosa and muscularis of the distal stomach and proximal duodenum.  The tumour reaches the submucosa in the duodenum and there is  lymphovascular invasion in the duodenal wall. The gastric margin is clear.  A section of duodenal margin is not submitted (further block to follow).  The gastric mucosa shows mild reactive changes  distally but is otherwise unremarkable.  No Helicobacter are seen. The duodenal mucosa is unremarkable.  Lymph nodes are not identified.

G &amp;amp; H.  Sections show large bowel wall including mucosa.  The mucosa is unremarkable. There is no evidence of malignancy.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, cervix, bilateral ovaries, fallopian tubes and colon.
-  Bilateral high grade serous carcinoma in-situ in fallopian tubes.
-  Bilateral high grade serous carcinoma in ovaries.
-  Serous carcinoma invading colon

B.  Omentum:
-  Extensive high grade serous carcinoma.
-  Four negative lymph nodes (0/4).
C. Paraduodenum:
-  Extensive high grade serous carcinoma.
D.  Peripancreatic lymph nodes:
-  Two of four lymph nodes (2/4) containing serous carcinoma.
-  Serous carcinoma in perinodal fibroadipose tissue.
E.  Distal ileum and right colon:
-   Extensive high grade serous carcinoma, longitudinal end margins clear.
-   Serous carcinoma involving appendix.
-   Metastatic serous carcinoma in two of nine lymph nodes (2/9).
F.  Gastrectomy:
-   Extensive high grade serous carcinoma, gastric margin clear, small bowel margin to follow.
G &amp;amp; H.  Proximal and distal donuts:
-   Colonic wall, no evidence of malignancy.
