SPR no: 21D278975L
MRN no: 9536577
Site_name: CARNARVON HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
78 year old with low grade serous ovarian cancer for cytological reduction of disease via laparotomy.  AF.  Sjorgen&amp;apos;s syndrome.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Small bowel nodule&amp;quot;, consists of fragments of fibroadipose tissue, 50 x 35 x 17mm.  One of the fragments is cystic, containing a unilocular cyst 30 x 20 x 20mm, containing green jelly like material.  The cyst wall measures less than 1mm in thickness and the cyst lining is smooth.  Blocks: 1 to 3 - representative cyst; 4 to 6 - representative fibroadipose tissue.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right ileac nodule&amp;quot;, consists of an irregularly shaped piece of tissue with a unilocular cyst, 40 x 30 x 12mm.  On section, the cyst wall measures 1mm in maximum thickness and is smooth.  The cyst contains green jelly like material.  RS 6 blocks.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Caecal nodule&amp;quot;, consists of fragments of fibroadipose tissue, 34 x 35 x 14mm in aggregate.  On section, no obvious tumour is identified.  AE 3 blocks.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Ascending bowel nodule&amp;quot;, consists of fragments of fibroadipose tissue, 40 x 30 x 15mm in aggregate.  On section, no obvious tumour is identified.  AE 4 blocks.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Transverse colon nodule&amp;quot;, consists of a pale grey tissue fragment, 18 x 12 x 5mm.  Sectioned transversely.  AE 1 block.

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Rectal sigmoid nodule&amp;quot;, consists of fibroadipose tissue, 50 x 35 x 14mm.  On section, no obvious tumour is identified.  AE 8 blocks.

G.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Rectal nodule&amp;quot;, consists of fragments of pale grey tissue, 25 x 12 x 12mm. On section, no obvious tumour is identified.  AE 1 block.

H.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Vaginal vault nodule&amp;quot;, consists of fibroadipose tissue, 50 x 25 x 18mm.  On section, there is an area of necrosis and possible tumour, 13 x 10 x 15mm.  RS 3 blocks.

I.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Small bowel mesentery&amp;quot;, consists of a fragment of fibroadipose tissue, 23 x 18 x 7mm.  On section, no obvious tumour is identified.  AE 1 block.

J.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Proximal ileum&amp;#8221;, consists of a tortuous segment of bowel, extensively adherent to itself, measuring approximately 400mm in length with the circumference of 37mm.  There is attached fibroadipose tissue/mesentery, up to 70mm in width  There is a sutured full thickness defect on one aspect of the bowel wall, 25 x 5mm.  The serosa is studded by a few variably sized, tan nodules, 1mm to 5mm in maximum dimension, possibly tumour deposits.  Numerous variably sized cysts are found within the attached fibroadipose tissue, ranging in size from approximately 3mm to 15mm in maximum dimension.  The cysts show smooth inner lining and contain thin yellowish fluid.
Blocks: 1 - LS one margin; 2 - LS other margin; 3 and 4 - representative bowel wall defect; 5 to 7 - representative adhesions, ?tumour; 8 to 11 - representative ?tumour nodules; 12 to 14 - representative cysts.   (TO:YY/eh 14/6/66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr G Arimas):
A. The sections show fibrofatty tissue with a thin walled cyst partially lined by columnar epithelial cells with mild atypia. Most of the luminal epithelium is attenuated and flattened or artefactually lost. There is mild chronic inflammation and focal dystrophic calcification in the wall.  Scattered small groups of atypical epithelial cells are seen within fibrous wall of the cyst and within the fragments of fibrofatty tissue (slides A1, A3, A4).   There are also occasional small branching papillae lined by similar epithelial cells, with associated psammoma bodies (slide A2). A micropapillary pattern is seen in some areas. Lymphovascular invasion is present (Slides A4-A6).  A small amount of smooth muscle is seen (slide A4), consistent with bowel wall, but no intestinal mucosa is found in representative sections. The tumour extends very close to the smooth muscle but tumour cells do not invade into smooth muscle.

B.  The sections show a cyst lined by variably attenuated serous cells, with branching papillae in some areas (slide B1).  Groups of atypical epithelial cells and small calcifications are seen in the cyst wall and adjacent fibrofatty tissue.

C. The sections show fatty and fibrous tissue.  Nests of tumour cells are found within fibrous tissue, many showing a papillary arrangement.   Psammoma bodies are readily found. Lymphovascular invasion is present.

D. The sections show fibrous and fatty tissue and bundles of smooth muscle  consistent with bowel wall.  Small nests and groups of low grade serous carcinoma are seen widely infiltrating through the specimen, close to the smooth muscle (slides D1, D3) but not invading into smooth muscle. There is an associated desmoplastic reaction.  Lymphovascular invasion is present.

E. The sections show smooth muscle consistent with bowel wall. There is extensive low grade serous carcinoma with desmoplastic reaction and areas of necrosis in the fibrofatty tissue adjacent to one side of the muscle consistent with serosa. There are small groups of tumour cells on the other side of the smooth muscle, presumed submucosa.

F. The sections show fibrofatty tissue. There are areas of cystic change, cysts lined by atypical serous cells with scattered papillary structures. There are nests of low grade serous carcinoma and psammoma bodies within the fibrous tissue.  Areas of necrosis are noted.  Lymphovascular invasion is present. Two small lymph nodes are present with no evidence of tumour (slides F5, F6).

G.  The sections show fibrous tissue and some fatty tissue. There are multiple nests and sheets of low grade serous carcinoma. A micropapillary pattern is seen in some areas. There are many psammoma bodies. Lymphovascular invasion is present. In some areas, the tumour appears cystic.

H. The sections show fibrous tissue with several nests and sheets of low grade serous carcinoma. A papillary pattern is seen in many areas and there are several psammoma bodies. Areas of old haemorrhage with cholesterol crystals, chronic inflammation and foamy macrophages are seen. Areas of cystic change are seen.

I.  The sections show fibrofatty tissue.  There are nests and sheets of low grade serous carcinoma with a florid associated desmoplastic reaction.  Psammoma bodies are readily found.

J.  No tumour is seen in the proximal and distal margins of the small bowel itself but there is marked acute inflammation in the serosa and a small (1mm) deposit of low grade serous carcinoma near the serosal surface, about 5mm from one cut margin (slide J2). At the area of the defect in the bowel wall, moderate acute inflammation extends through the defect in the muscularis propria into the submucosa.  Small nests of low grade serous carcinoma are seen in the serosa (reaching close to the muscularis propria) and mesenteric fat (slide J3) in this area. Tumour nests are scattered throughout the serosa in other parts of the specimen (e.g., slides J9 -11) reaching the serosal surface (slides J10, J11).   Tumour emboli are seen within thin walled lymphovascular spaces (e.g., slides J11, J14). The tumour shows cystic change in some areas (slides J12, J14).

DIAGNOSIS:
A-J. Small bowel, right ileac, caecal, ascending colon, transverse, rectosigmoid, rectal, vaginal vault, small bowel mesenteric nodules and proximal ileum: Low grade serous carcinoma.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ( 25.6.70)
This case was discussed at the gynaecology tumour board meeting on 19.5.66 and immunoperoxidase stains were requested.  These were performed and the results are as follows:

Oestrogen receptor antigen: Moderately to strongly expressed in &amp;gt; 90% of tumour nuclei.
Progesterone receptor antigen: Not expressed.
BRAF V600E: Technically unsatisfactory (also shown to Dr Bennie RODRIUEZ who agrees the stain is unsatisfactory). Further sections will be cut and sent to another laboratory for repeat staining.

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (10.6.66)
BRAF V600E immunoperoxidase stains were repeated at MODBURY HOSPITAL and CRAIGIEBURN HEALTH SERVICE (COLAC AREA HEALTH).  There is no convincing expression of this antigen in the tumour cells compared to the control sections, but there is considerable artefact noted, including sectioning and staining artefact.
