SPR no: 60G025820E
MRN no: 10563609
Site_name: HEALESVILLE & DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report60G02582 (60G025820E) RIBAR, Tyson WILBERT
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
MOUNT DRUITT HOSPITAL AND SUTHERLAND HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Appendix tumour, peritonectomy, right colon and appendix, spleen, gallbladder, peritoneal sections, mucinous tumour.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;RIGHT COLON, APPENDIX, SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, PERITONEAL SURFACES, MUCINOUS TUMOUR&amp;quot;.  Received within the same jar with confluent involvement by multiple tumor deposits including;

A right hemicolectomy specimen consists of a terminal ileum 65x35mm, caecum and ascending colon 115x85mm with grossly enlarged appendix 38x16mm.  Attached is mesentery and mesocolon up to 65mm.  The mucosal surfaces are unremarkable.  The appendix is firm with cystic area towards its base measuring 12x13mm. The appendix body is cystically dilated up to 15mm in maximum diameter with thickening of the wall up to 5mm.  It becomes firm with multiple cystic like spaces towards the base. The appendix is embedded to its entirety . No other polyps or tumors are identified.Mucinous deposits are identified on the surface of the adjacent mesentery.

(1  proximal and distal margin; 2&amp;amp;3  appendix tip each one TS; 4-7  TS appendix from tip to base; 8&amp;amp;9  continuous slice LS base; 10  LS base; 11  caecal mucosa surrounding orifice; 12  apical lymph node trisected; 13-15  each six lymph nodes; 16  mucinous deposit mesentery).

Received a gallbladder that is already opened centrally measuring 80x35mm.  The outer surface is ragged and covered by multiple mucinous deposits.    The wall is up to 4mm thick.  The mucosal surfaces are green and granular.  No calculi are identified.

(17  cystic duct and TS neck; 18  TS body and LS fundus [with mucinous deposits]).

A spleen, 211g, measuring 90x70x50mm with attached fibrofatty tissue 60x30x30mm.  The capsular surface and the adjacent fat is extensively involved by mucinous deposits involving the underlying parenchyma superficially.  The cut surface of the spleen is haemorrhagic, red with no discrete intraparenchymal lesion.

(19  splenic surface involvement peripheral; 20  splenic involvement at hilum; 21  adjacent fat serosal involvement).

A segment of hollow structure (?stomach) measures 60x50mm with overlying ragged serosa (involvement by mucinous deposit).  The mucosal surface is unremarkable.  No intraluminal tumours are identified.

(22-24  LS across the specimen).

Received a fibrofatty piece of tissue consistent with omentum measuring 300x240x60mm extensive mucinous tumour deposits replacing the omentum (omental cake over 90% of its cut surface).  The cut surface is mucinous and focally firm white in colour.

(25-27  representative omental cake with block 25 tumour block for tissue banking).

Received multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue with mucinous material measuring 300x250x80mm in aggregate with extensive involvement of the peritoneal strips by mucinous deposits.  A fallopian tube with adjacent ovary is identified towards one peritoneal strip.  The fallopian tube measures 40x6mm.  The attached ovary 25x10x5mm.  Both of unremarkable outer and cut surface.  Towards another edge of peritoneal strip there is another fallopian tube 45x10mm with possible attached ovary 20x20x15mm.

(28  shorter fallopian tube, two LS fimbrial end and one TS with adjacent ovary; 29&amp;amp;30  longer fallopian tube and adjacent ovary; 31-33  representative peritoneal strip involvement).  RS (M-33/ZH 30/5/2069 km).

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr. Q. Mahn)
Sections through the right hemicolectomy specimen show a low grade mucinous appendiceal neoplasm with pushing type invasion extending right through the caecum and base of the appendix into pericolic soft tissue.  The tumour comprises of mucinous epithelium with serrated surface and mild epithelial atypia.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  The rest of the appendix also shows a low grade mucinous appendiceal tumour lining its lumen.  The surgical margins of resection are clear of any lesion.
Metastatic mucinous neoplasm is seen in 2 out of 15 local lymph nodes.  The apical lymph node is not involved.

There are numerous peritoneal deposits with high grade cytology (discordant to the appendiceal mucinous neoplasm ) best classified as mucinous adenocarcinoma.

These deposits of mucinous adenocarcinoma are seen in the mesentery of the right colon and in periappendiceal serosa.  In addition there are deposits of well differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma including non mucinous desmoplastic areas involving the serosa of the gallbladder, capsule of the spleen, omentum, serosa of the stomach and separately submitted peritoneal fragments.  Deposit of mucinous adenocarcinoma is seen involving mesovarium of one of the of the ovaries.

The gallbladder shows no intrinsic abnormality.  The splenic parenchyma is unremarkable.  The body type gastric mucosa wall shows no focal abnormality.  Both ovaries and fallopian tubes show no intrinsic abnormality.  A separate fragment of ectopic pancreatic tissue amongst smooth muscle presumably from bowel wall is also seen.

DIAGNOSIS:
RIGHT COLON, APPENDIX, SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, PERITONEAL SURFACES, MUCINOUS TUMOUR :
- LOW GRADE MUCINOUS APPENDICEAL NEOPLASM WITH DEPOSITS IN 3 OUT OF 15 LOCAL LYMPH NODES.
- DEPOSITS OF (DISCORDANT) MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA IN MESENTERY OF RIGHT COLON, GALLBLADDER SEROSA, CAPSULE OF SPLEEN, OMENTUM, SEPARATELY SUBMITTED PERITONEAL FRAGMENTS, MESOVARIUM AND GASTRIC SEROSA.
6/1/2070 ank
