SPR no: 37J873579V
MRN no: 37387357
Site_name: SINGLETON DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
53 year old with history of endometrial cancer stage 3, had chemo, hypertension and diabetes.  Left ovarian mass.  Omentum and pelvic washings.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left fallopian tube plus ovary&amp;quot;, consists of an ovary, 51 x 35 x 24mm, and separate fallopian tube 40mm in length and up to 10mm diameter.  The ovary contains a unilocular cyst, 12 x 10 x 10mm.  There is an ill-defined solid area adjacent to this cyst associated with patchy areas of yellow.  The surface of the ovary is smooth and grey.
Blocks: 1 - LS fimbriae; 2 - remaining fallopian tube; 3 to 8 - RS ovary (5 &amp;amp; 6 paired sections).

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of lobulated fibroadipose tissue, 240 x 150 x 20mm.  There is a piece of grey fibrous tissue attached to one edge, 55 x 23 x 15mm.  No discrete lesion is identified.  RS 3 blocks (3 - includes fibrous tissue).   (TO:LK/rs 13/12/65)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr J Blayney):
A.  The sections of the left ovary show a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma.  The tumour is composed of multiple nodules of back-to-back glands with abundant luminal mucin.  Focally, the tumour shows columnar cells with crowded hyperchromatic nuclei.  Squamous morules are also seen.  There is a mild to moderate degree of cytologic atypia.  These features are consistent with well-differentiated (grade 1) endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  No surface involvement of the ovary is identified.  The ovary also contains a benign simple cyst.  A focus of endometrioid adenocarcinoma is also seen in the paratubal serosa.  The fallopian tube is otherwise unremarkable.  No convincing endometriosis is identified.

B.  The sections show adipose tissue with areas of mature fibrosis.  There is no evidence of malignancy.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left fallopian tube plus ovary:  Endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
B.  Omentum:  No evidence of malignancy.
