SPR no: 54I304810U
MRN no: 543304
Site_name: CARITAS CHRISTI HOSPICE
Facility_id: MR
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report54I30481,54I30481 (54I304810U) VITIELLO, TAYLOR YONG
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
ST MARYS COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTRE HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Pelvic mass, ?metastatic CRC, Ca125 41, Ca 19.9 140.
1. Peritoneal washing for Cyto.
2. Right ovary and tube for frozen section.
Metastatic Ca ?bowel ?uterine.
1. Uterus, left ovary and tube.
2. Omentum.
3. Left pelvic lymph node.
4. Sigmoid serosa.
5. Rectosigmoid colon.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;RIGHT OVARY AND TUBE&amp;quot;. 81g, 80x40x40mm, pale bosselated ovary. On sectioning, uniform solid pale cut surface. Attached fallopian tube.

F/S: &amp;quot;Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, possible colonic origin&amp;quot;. Results were given by phone to Dr. P. Adcock at 4:26pm on 13/02/2069 by Dr. P. Cruthird.

(1  remainder frozen section).

The portion of attached tube is 45mm in length and 6mm in diameter.  The tube is difficult to identify with a rough ragged surface where it is attached along the ovary. There is a cystic lesion adjacent to the probable tube measuring 12mm across.

(2  probable proximal tube; 3  probable mid tube with adjacent cyst; 4&amp;amp;5  fimbrial all embedded; 6-8 ovary).  Representative sections. (M-8).

B. &amp;quot;UTERUS, LEFT OVARY AND TUBE&amp;quot;. The specimen consists of a uterus with attached cervix and attached left ovary and tube and a small portion of right tube weighing 462g and measuring 155x135x75mm. The left tube is 65mm in length, up to 11mm in diameter. The fimbria are adherent to the left ovary and measure approximately 21mm across. There is one paratubal cyst 4mm across. The left ovary and tube together weigh 83g. The left ovary is 60x55x40mm and has a lobulated surface with a slightly roughened feel over one side and where it is adherent to the tube, over a total area 45x40mm. The portion of right tube is 20mm in length and approximately 10mm in diameter.

(1  proximal left tube; 2-3 ovary and paratubal cyst; 4-8 fimbrial all embedded; 9&amp;amp;10  roughened area ?further fimbria; 11-13  longitudinal sections through attached portion of right tube).

The uterus is 130mm longitudinally, 100mm between the cornua and 70mm anteroposteriorly. The anterior side is inked blue, the posterior side is inked black. There is attached anterior peritoneal reflection up to 40mm in width and attached posterior peritoneal reflection up to 25mm in width. The serosal surface of most of the specimen is smooth. Near the reflection anteriorly and extending into the reflection there are indurated areas. The posterior reflection also contains a roughened surface with multiple nodular distortions over an area 70x35mm and the reflection is indurated and up to 10mm in thickness. The cervix is 35x27mm in transverse section and 30mm in length. The entire cervix has a lobulated appearance and the anterior side of the cervix is roughened and nodular over an area 14x6mm.  The endometrium is 1mm in thickness. The anterior myometrium is up to 33mm in thickness. The posterior myometrium is up to 27mm in thickness. The cut surface of the body shows the cavity to be expanded up to 10mm across and has a vague cream cystic appearance with cystic areas up to 5mm across. There are four subserosal circumscribed cream nodules up to 5mm across in anterior and posterior myometrium, one of which distorts the serosa, the others are subserosal.

(14  right parametrial; 15  left parametrial; 16  anterior cervix; 17 posterior cervix; 18 anterior cervix roughened area; 19 anterior peritoneal reflection; 20 posterior peritoneal reflection; 21 anterior lower segment; 22  posterior lower segment; 23&amp;amp;24 anterior myometrium; 25&amp;amp;26  posterior myometrium; 27-28  roughened serosa posteriorly; 29  cystic myometrium, fundus; 30 subserosal nodule). Representative sections.  (M-30).

C. &amp;quot;OMENTUM&amp;quot;. Multiple pieces of omental fatty tissue measuring in aggregate 200x130x50mm. There are indurated areas throughout the omentum consistent with omental caking including a large nodular area 60x45x35mm and most of the tissue is indurated. There are multiple tumour deposits throughout the omentum measuring up to the largest 35mm across.

(1&amp;amp;2  representative omentum with tumour deposits, largest tumour deposit in block 2).  Representative sections. (2-2).

D. &amp;quot;LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;. One grey nodule with fragments of fatty tissue attached measuring 14x12x8mm. Bisected all embedded in one block. All embedded.  (M-1).

E. &amp;quot;SIGMOID SEROSA&amp;quot;. One piece of fatty tissue 18x14x7mm with a roughened serosal surface on one side. All embedded in blocks 1 and 2.  All embedded. (M-2).

F. &amp;quot;RECTOSIGMOID COLON&amp;quot;. A 100mm length of large bowel with mesocolon up to 45mm in thickness. 40mm from the proximal end the mesocolon is wrapping around the anterior surface of the serosa and is adherent. The anterior peritoneal reflection is 15mm from the distal surgical margin. Distal surgical margin is inked black, proximal blue. Sectioning through the area of fat wrapping reveals a 22mm tumour which is pushing into but not through the mucosa and extends to the serosal surface. There are several smaller deposits 1mm to 25mm within the wall of the bowel including the serosal surface. The mucosa is not involved. One deposit is present below the anterior peritoneal reflection, 10mm from the anterior radial margin.

(1 proximal and distal margins; 2 submucosal tumour; 3 serosal tumour; 4 deposit with closest radial margin; 5-6 tumour deposits; 7-10  one lymph node bisected in each block; 11  four lymph nodes, no apical lymph node was identified; 12  fat from apex). Representative sections. (M-12/FR 15/2/2071 km).

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr. P. Rhines)
A. The ovary is widely infiltrated by poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma showing nested, trabecular, cribriforming, glandular and single cell architecture. There is some luminal necrosis and the tumour is surrounded by desmoplastic stroma. The fimbrial end of the fallopian tube is not involved. There is perineural invasion (A2). The tumour cells have variable morphology, with many areas showing pancreatobiliary-type cytology with basally located elongated nuclei and moderate amounts of eosinophilic and clear apical cytoplasm. Other areas show gastric foveolar-type epithelium and most of the poorly differentiated areas show cells with pleomorphic nuclei and abundant amounts of fine eosinophilic cytoplasm.

B. There is poorly differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma in the wall of the left fallopian tube including the fimbrial end (B1, B4), left ovary (B2), right parametrium (B14), left parametrium, including a large tumour thrombus in a large vessel (B15), cervix (B18), posterior uterine peritoneal reflection, lower uterine segment, uterine fundus myometrium and serosa. The tumour glands form large cystic spaces in the myometrium. The remaining endometrium is otherwise atrophic. There is widespread vascular invasion (eg. B1). It shows identical morphology to specimen A and there are also areas that have mucinous features, with PAS stain highlighting abundant mucin vacuoles.

C. The omentum shows deposits of metastatic poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.

D. One lymph node with no malignancy.

E. The serosal fat is infiltrated by poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.

F. The large bowel wall shows multiple deposits of moderately and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in the serosa, muscularis propria and submucosa. The largest deposit is a submucosal nodule extending through to the serosal surface. There is no mucosal dysplasia and no mucosal involvement by tumour. There is widespread lymphovascular invasion. The deposit below the peritoneal reflection is 10mm from the anterior radial margin.
There is metastatic adenocarcinoma in 6 of the 7 sampled lymph nodes.

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:
Performed on the left fallopian tube fimbrial tumour deposit (block B4).
Positive: AE1/AE3, CK7, CEA (patchy), p16 (weak patchy).
Negative: ER, TTF1, CDX2, GATA3, CK20, WT1, PAX8.
P53 shows wild type staining.

MUC stains:
Positive: MUC1 (strong diffuse), MUC5AC (patchy), MUC6.
Negative: MUC2
This pattern is seen in tumours of the endometrium, biliary system, pancreas, and upper gastrointestinal tract, among others.

Mismatch repair proteins MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 show retained positive staining.

COMMENT:
This is a widely metastatic adenocarcinoma involving most of the sampled tissue. The immunohistochemistry and histology features are not definitive for a single primary source. The bulk of the tumour is in the cervix, endometrium and myometrium, and a significant amount is present as metastatic disease in the bowel segment. The histology suggests possibility of gastric-type endocervical adenocarcinoma, and other possibilities include mucinous adenocarcinoma of the endometrium and metastatic adenocarcinoma from the pancreas, biliary tract or upper gastrointestinal tract. Correlate with clinical and radiological findings.

DIAGNOSIS:
A. RIGHT OVARY AND TUBE:
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma (see COMMENT)

B. UTERUS, LEFT OVARY AND TUBE:
- Adenocarcinoma widely involving the uterus, ovary and fallopian tube.

C. OMENTUM:
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma

D. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE:
- One lymph node with no malignancy

E. SIGMOID SEROSA:
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma

F. RECTOSIGMOID COLON:
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma widely involving the bowel wall at multiple sites
- Involves 6 lymph nodes
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
Immunohistochemistry for Her2:  score 0.  Her2 is NEGATIVE.
