SPR no: 38G093458F
MRN no: 382093
Site_name: ANGASTON HOSPITAL
Facility_id: MR
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Right uterus.  Right ovary + tube.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right ovary + tube + uterus&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix and right fallopian tube and ovary weighing 96 grams in total.  The uterus measures 80 x 55 x 40mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 27 x 32mm and is received partially opened and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 1mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 24mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  The right fallopian tube measures 50 x diameter 7mm.  The right ovary appears cystic and measures  35 x 23 x 13mm.  It is received in a ruptured state.  On sectioning the cyst is uniloculated with no papillary excrescences.  Blocks: 1 to 3 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 4 to 6 - full LS of posterior body and cervix; 7 - fimbria and RS tube; 8 to 11 - sections of ovary.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Adhesion&amp;quot;, consists of a strand of fibrofatty tissue 35 x 4 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Sigmoid mesotrim&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue 8 x 4 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.   (TO:BL/vo 16/7/66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr J Calzada):
A.  Cervix shows mild chronic cervicitis and squamous metaplasia.  No evidence of dysplasia.  Endometrium is weakly proliferative.  No evidence of hyperplasia, atypia or chronic inflammation.  Myometrium shows a single focus of adenomyosis in the anterior lower segment.  No evidence of fibroids.  Right ovary sections show a haemorrhagic cyst lined by luteal cells.  There is also a small surface of papilloma with single layer of ciliated cuboidal cell covering.  No evidence of atypia or malignancy.  Sections of the fallopian tube show areas of squamous metaplasia of the epithelium.  No evidence of dysplasia.

B.  Fibrofatty tissue with vascular fibrotic area.  No evidence of endometriosis or neoplasia.

C.  Fibrofatty tissue.  No significant abnormality.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right ovary tube and uterus:  Focal adenomyosis involving anterior lower segment.     Endometrium is unremarkable. Cervix -chronic cervicitis
Right ovary- small Benign surface papilloma and a haemorrhagic luteal cyst
Fallopian tube- no significant abnormality.

B.  Adhesion:  Fibrous adhesions.  No other abnormality.
C.  Sigmoid mesotrim:  Fibrofatty tissue.  No significant abnormality.
