SPR no: 18S065511R
MRN no: 0955746
Site_name: CESSNOCK DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Decrease HB (74); Fe Def.  Tumour on c/scope - asc colon tumour.  No perforation.  No mets.


MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right hemicolectomy&amp;quot;, consists of a right hemicolectomy, which was received fresh, tumour has been taken fresh for biobanking.  It consists of a right hemicolectomy specimen with right colon measuring 145mm in length and 75mm in open circumference.  The terminal ileum is 50mm in length and 30mm in open circumference.  The appendix is not identified.  Located in the caecum is an exophytic brown firm tumour, 62 x 45mm.  It is raised to a height of 8mm above the surrounding colonic mucosa.  It is located 53mm from the proximal resection margin and 80mm from the distal resection margin.  The serosa underlying the tumour appears haemorrhagic and indurated and shall be inked in green.  There is up to 95mm of attached mesentery with an apical suture line, 30mm in length.  The distal longitudinal margin is inked blue and the proximal longitudinal margin is inked black.  The tumour has a maximum depth of invasion of 10mm.  It appears to abut the green inked surface.  The rest of bowel is unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 - longitudinal distal margin; 2 - longitudinal proximal margin; 3 to 5 - full face of tumour showing closest deep surface; 6 &amp;amp; 7 - further composite section of tumour showing close deep surface; 8 - tumour, closest to deep surface; 9 - tumour and adjacent normal colon in the distal direction; 10 &amp;amp; 11 - tumour and adjacent normal in the proximal direction (including ileocaecal valve); 12 - tumour banking; 13 - shave apical vascular margin; 14 - first apical node; 15 - second apical node; 16 - one node; 17 - one node bisected; 18 - one node bisected; 19 - five possible nodes; 20 - one bisected node; 21 - five nodes; 22 - one bisected node; 23 - one bisected node; 24 - four nodes; 25 - one trisected node; 26 - one bisected node.  (TO: RQ/ta 18/2/70)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr C Zawasky):
Synoptic Report for Large Bowel Carcinoma
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:  Caecum
Maximum tumour diameter:  62mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  53mm (proximal)
Tumour perforation:  No

Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS

Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate

Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not applicable
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  Not applicable

Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:  18
Number of lymph nodes involved:  0

pN0	No regional LN metastasis

Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent

Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
None

Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour

Response to neoadjuvent therapy (Modified Ryan scheme)
Not applicable

Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
The block best for molecular genetic testing is:  5

Summary &amp;#8211; TNM 7th Edition
pT3     pN0     pMX     R0
DIAGNOSIS:
Right hemicolectomy - Adenocarcinoma.
