SPR no: 16E749364D
MRN no: 16174936
Site_name: BARADINE MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report16E74936 (16E749364D) Mizrahi, Lisette RENATO
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT
BATHURST BASE HOSPITAL HOSPITAL LABORATORIES

CLINICAL NOTES:
Low grade serous adenocarcinoma
Omentum, left colon, rectum, ovaries, uterus, spleen and peritoneal disease.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;RECTUM, SPLEEN, UTERUS, BILATERAL OVARIES&amp;quot;.  Received in multiple pieces.
Spleen:  A spleen measuring 95x70x25mm.  There is no nodular deposit in the capsule. The capsule is partially stripped in the hilar area.  There are some nodular deposits in the hilar fat. The cut surface of the spleen is brown and without any deposits.

(1 RS of spleen; 2&amp;amp;3 RS of capsule area that was partially stripped; 4 RS of nodular deposits in the hilar fat; 5 nodular deposit 120mm distal to the hilum;

Segment of bowel:  Measuring 45mm with an open diameter of 60mm.  The serosa is rough.  One margin inked black, the other blue.

6 blue margin; 7 RS rough area in serosa [TS]; 8 black margin;

Segment of bowel:  Measuring 150mm in length and an open diameter of 55mm.  The mucosa appears unremarkable.  One margins inked blue, the other black.  Approximately from 90mm to the blue margin the serosa appears rough. The mesocolon contains some nodular deposits.

(9 surgical margin; 10 two RS roughened area; 11 another margin)

Segment of bowel measuring 70mm with an open circumference of 40mm. The mucosa appears unremarkable.  There are some roughened areas in the serosa.  There is a peritoneal fat adherent to the mesocolon measuring 230mm in length.  The peritoneal fat contains some layer of muscle measuring  70mm.  There are several nodular deposits in the peritoneal fat.
One margin inked black one blue.

(12 one margin; 13&amp;amp;14 RS rough area in the serosa; 15 another margin; 16&amp;amp;17 RS muscular layer and nodular deposit in the peritoneal fat; 18 RS adherent peritoneal fat to the mesocolon)

Tubular structure consistent with appendix measuring 65x4mm.  There are few nodular deposits in the mesocolon. External surface in the middle of the appendix appears haemorrhagic and roughened.  Base inked blue.

(19 two LS [base and apex]; 20 two RS from the middle of the appendix)

There are multiple pieces of peritoneal fat floating in the container measuring 160x170x20mm in aggregate.  Some of them having few nodular deposit.

(21 RS nodular deposit)

Segment of rectosigmoid with adherent uterus and adnexa measuring 370mm in length with an open circumference of 30mm.  The wall thickness is uniform up to 3mm thick.  There are some focal areas of roughness in the serosa and some few nodular deposit in the mesocolon. Proximal margin inked green. The distal margin inked blue.  Uterus and adnexa are adherent to the rectosigmoid with a strip of peritoneum.  Uterus measures 60x40x250mm.  Cervix measures 20x18x2mm.  Left and right fallopian tubes measuring 60x5mm and 65x3mm respectively.  Left ovary weighs 8.4g and measuring 40x25x15, right ovary weighs 8g and measuring 35x25x15mm .  Both ovaries are covered with green papillary projections.  The serosa of the uterus and fallopian tubes have some nodular deposits.  Cut surface of the uterus reveals 5mm intramural fibroid in the posterior uterine wall otherwise is unremarkable.  Endometrium is up to 1mm thick and myometrium measures 13mm.

(22&amp;amp;23 LS left fallopian tube; 24&amp;amp;25 RS left ovary; 26&amp;amp;27 right ovary; 28&amp;amp;29 RS right fallopian tube; 30 anterior and posterior cervix; 31 anterior and posterior uterine wall; 32 anterior and posterior fundus; 33 fibroid; 34 one margin; 35&amp;amp;36 RS of nodular deposit; 37 another margin).  RS (M-37/LMA 6/8/2067 ank)

MICROSCOPIC:
The sections of the splenic parenchyma are unremarkable.  In the perisplenic adipose tissues there are deposits of papillary tumour with features of serous carcinoma including psammomatous calcifications.  Focal areas of necrosis are seen.  There is variable nuclear atypia including areas with high grade nuclei identified.  Mitotic figures are seen.

Sections of the segment of bowel appear unremarkable apart from the presence of surface adhesions.

Sections of the next described segment of bowel show large bowel with normal morphology apart from the presence of serous carcinoma on the serosal surface.

Sections of the next described segment of bowel show large bowel with normal appearing bowel wall.  There are serosal adhesions and in the adjacent adipose tissues there are deposits of serous carcinoma.  Sections of the appendix show deposits of serous carcinoma in the mesoappendix and infiltrating the appendiceal wall.

Sections of the separate piece of peritoneal fat shows a deposit of serous carcinoma.

Sections of the left fallopian tube show serous carcinoma involving the fimbrial end.  Serous carcinoma is also seen on the surfaces of the left and right ovaries and on the serosal surfaces of the right fallopian tube.  Serous carcinoma is seen on the serosal surface of the uterus.  Serous carcinoma is also seen in the adventitial fat/serosa of the this attached segment of rectosigmoid colon.  In some areas, numerous psammomatous calcifications are identified with fibroblastic reaction.

In the sections of serous carcinoma there is variable nuclear atypia including some areas with less nuclear atypia. Prominent papillary and micro-papillary architecture is seen and there are some areas with prominent psammomatous calcifications. Nevertheless, in several areas there is tumour necrosis with high grade nuclear features and greater than 12 mitoses/10hpf in the most mitotically active areas (although some areas show a much lower mitotic rate and are devoid of necrosis).

The sections of the cervix are unremarkable.  The endometrium is inactive, and a small leiomyoma is seen within the myometrium.

Immunohistochemistry (blocks 5, 23, 27, 36): There is positive staining for WT-1, PAX-8, and ER (variable) PgR is negative. Ki-67 is variable. P-53 (in multiple blocks) shows overall negative staining (focal p-53 cell staining appears to represent occasional admixed inflammatory cells).

COMMENT: The appearances are those of serous carcinoma. Although there is variable nuclear atypia the presence of some areas with high grade nuclei, necrosis, and increased mitotic activity and the negative p-53 staining is consistent with high grade serous carcinoma. Tumour is also seen on the fimbrial end of a fallopian tube and this is also consistent with high grade serous carcinoma.

DIAGNOSIS:
PERITONECTOMY SPECIMEN:  CONSISTENT WITH HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA - SEE TEXT AND COMMENT.
15/8/2067 nh
