SPR no: 27E579970P
MRN no: 10513542
Site_name: KURRI KURRI DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report
CLINICAL:
Likely ovarian cancer.  Tissue for frozen section.  Laparotomy for ovarian cancer CA125 1280.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omental biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of omentum measuring 60 x 50 x 30mm.  The fat has a solid tan cut surface throughout.  Two RS for frozen section.  Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - frozen section; 3 &amp;amp; 4 - further sections.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma consistent with gynaecological primary ? serous ? clear cell.
Results phoned to Dr Denny by Dr F Tenpas / F Creviston at 2:15pm on 10/07/70.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of multiple pieces of omental fat measuring 270 x 160 x 35mm in aggregate.  The serosal surface is mostly smooth and shiny with evidence of adhesions / tumour.  On sectioning multiple tumour deposits are identified measuring up to 30mm in maximal dimension.  RS 4 blocks.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right fallopian tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a fallopian tube measuring 90 x 8mm with a nodular and papillary distortion of the fimbrial end measuring 45 x 42 x 18mm.  The ovary measures 65 x 55 x 53mm and has a smooth and shiny serosal surface.  The ovary is multilocular and multilocular cystic with a wall measuring up to 3mm thick and an inner lining with diffuse pale papillary excrescences.  The cyst contains haemorrhagic gelatinous and clear thin serous fluid.  No solid areas are identified.  RS Blocks: 1 to 3 - fallopian tubes; 4 to 8 - ovaries.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left fallopian tube and ovary and upper vagina&amp;quot;, consists of a composite specimen of fibrofatty tissue with distorted anatomical landmarks measuring 65 x 60 x 35mm in total.  A fimbrial end is identified of the fallopian tube but the remaining tube cannot be seen.  There is a cyst measuring 30mm in diameter.  Remaining anatomical structures cannot be appreciated.  On sectioning the ovarian tissue is exposed and demonstrates a multilocular cystic mass with solid pale areas and papillary excrescences.  Further possible tumour deposits are identified within the attached soft tissue.  RS 7 blocks (block 6 &amp;amp; 7 include fimbrial ends).

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Rectosigmoid&amp;quot;, consists of an unoriented segment of large bowel measuring 140 x 30mm with attached mesenteric fat to a width of 55mm.  The segment is situated above the anterior peritoneal reflection.  The serosal surface is distorted by multiple pale and firm nodule ranging in size from 3 to 12mm in maximal dimension.  The adherent fat appears haemorrhagic but there is no evidence of exudate or perforation.  The ? tumour deposits measure 22mm from one resection margin and 5mm from the other resection margin. The mucosal surface has regular tan folds which are interrupted by a polypoid exophytic mass measuring 20mm in diameter, partially obstructing the lumen.  The polyp has an ulcerated mucosa and is well demarcated from the surrounding mucosal folds. The polyp is located 85mm from one resection margin and 45mm from the other resection margin.  No other mucosal lesions are identified.  Several lymph nodes are identified within the attached fat.  Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - resection margins with serosal deposits; 3 &amp;amp; 4 - composite sections of polypoid tumour with extension from serosal aspect; 5 - further sections from polypoid tumour; 6 &amp;amp; 7 - one lymph node per block dissected; 8 - one further lymph node; 9 - separate tumour for biobanking.

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Caecum biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 43 x 20 x 7mm.  The fat has a nodular firm irregular texture with possible tumour deposits on the serosal surface.  No large bowel tissue is seen.  AE 2 blocks.

G.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right paracolic gutter&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 75 x 30 x 5mm.  The serosal surface is distorted by multiple firm nodules.  RS 1 block.

H.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Proximal donut&amp;quot;, consists of a ring of mucosa measuring 20 x 15 x 9mm.  The mucosal surface appears unremarkable.  The sutures are removed and tissue serially sliced and AE in 1 block.

I.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Distal donut&amp;quot;, consists of a loop of bowel wall measuring 24 x 17 x 10mm.  The mucosal surface is tan and uniform.  No lesions are identified.  Tissue serially sliced and AE 1 block.  (TO:FB/eh 8/6/66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr F Voigt):
A &amp;amp; B.  Sections show omental tissue with extensive involvement by high grade serous carcinoma.

C.  The right fallopian tube shows extensive involvement by high grade serous carcinoma.  The carcinoma snows a mixture of solid, papillary and cribriform architecture with extensive psammoma type calcification.  Majority of stroma and submucosa of the right tube is completely replaced by the tumour (block C2 and C3).  There are extensive lymphovascular invasion.  No definite carcinoma in-situ is seen.  The right ovary shows a benign serous cystadenoma.  The right ovary is not involved by the serous carcinoma.

D.  Sections show foci of high grade serous carcinoma involving left fallopian tube, left ovary and vagina.  There are small foci of tumour within the wall of left fallopian tube with lymphovascular invasion (block D3).  The level of tumour involvement is much less than the right fallopian tube.  The left ovary shows a benign serous cystadenoma.  There are foci of serous carcinoma involving the periphery of left ovary and attached soft tissue (block D4).  The carcinoma involves the deep tissue of vaginal wall (block D2).  The overlying squamous epithelium is intact.

E.  Sections of rectosigmoid colon show multiple foci of metastatic high grade serous carcinoma.  There are multiple serosal deposits.  The largest focus of metastatic carcinoma involves the full thickness bowel wall with mucosal ulceration.  There are extensive lymphovascular invasion.  Seven (7) lymph nodes are identified within the mesentery.  5 of 7 lymph nodes are involved by metastatic carcinoma.

F &amp;amp; G.  Sections show fibrofatty tissue with extensive involvement by high grade serous carcinoma.

H &amp;amp; I.  Sections show normal appearing colonic tissue with no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

Comment:
The right fallopian tube appears to be the most likely primary site duo the distribution and volume of tumour.


DIAGNOSIS:
A &amp;amp; B.  Omentum - Serous carcinoma.

C.  Right fallopian tube and ovary - Serous carcinoma.

D.  Left fallopian tube and ovary and upper vagina - Serous carcinoma.

E.  Rectosigmoid - Serous carcinoma.

F.  Caecum biopsy - Serous carcinoma.

G.  Right paracolic gutter - Serous carcinoma.

H.  Proximal donut - No significant abnormality.

I.  Distal donut - No significant abnormality.
