SPR no: 53V346792T
MRN no: 5383467
Site_name: KATANNING HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Lap Rt hemicolectomy.  Ascending colon Ca.  No mets.  No perforation.  Previous cervical Ca.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled:  Right hemicolectomy

Specimen
Specimen length:  185mm
Length of terminal ileum:  85mm
Length of caecum/ascending colon:  115mm
Thickness of mesocolon:  80mm
Appendix:  50mm x diameter 7mm

Tumour
Location:  Ascending colon
Description:  The tumour extends circumferentially around the bowel wall, and has raised indurated borders with an ulcerated centre.  On sectioning, the tumour extends past muscularis propria into the mesenteric fat.   The tumour also abuts the serosa.
Maximum tumour diameter:  140mm circumferentially and extending 50mm along the length of the ascending colon.
Perforation:  Absent
Appearance of serosa overlying tumour:  The serosa is obscured by adherent fat.  The bowel wall shows marked distortion and induration in the region overlying the tumour.
Distance of tumour to proximal cut end:  More than 100mm
Distance of tumour to distal cut end:  35mm
Distance of tumour to circumferential margin:  5mm

Other
Polyps:  None identified
Adherent structures:  Parts of the greater omentum.
Inked margins:  Distal margin black, proximal margin blue, circumferential margin green.

Blocks
1 - proximal margin; 2 - distal margin; 3 - two LS base of appendix and two LS tip of appendix and one TS appendix; 4 and 5 - tumour with circumferential margin; 6 to 9 - tumour abutting serosa; 10 - apical tissue with ?apical node; 11 - second and third level apical nodes; 12 - three lymph nodes; 13 - one lymph node; 14 - two lymph nodes; 15 - four lymph nodes; 16 - two lymph nodes; 17 - four lymph nodes; 18 - two lymph nodes; 19 - three lymph nodes; 20 - three lymph nodes; 21 - reserve block for biobank.  (TO:BL/hh 8/9/71)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr O Diiorio &amp;amp; registrar Dr O Lurie):
Section of colon show moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, overall graded as moderate.  Tumour extends through muscularis propria and involves the serosal surface, where malignant cell aggregates are embedded within granulation tissue associated with mesothelial hyperplasia and fibrin.  Separately, tumour extends 4mm from the circumferential resection margin.  Foci of lymphovascular invasion are identified at the advancing tumour edge.  One of the thirty three (1/33) lymph nodes show evidence of metastatic carcinoma.  The apical lymph nodes are negative.  The appendix shows fibrous obliteration of the tip.  The features are summarised below.

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS

Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate

Local invasion
T4a	Tumour penetrates the surface of the visceral peritoneum (including gross perforation of the bowel through tumour and continuous invasion of the tumour through areas of inflammation to the surface of the visceral peritoneum)

Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:  Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not involved
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  4mm

Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:  33
Number of lymph nodes involved:  1
Apical lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy.

N1a	Metastases in 1 regional LN

Lymphovascular invasion
Present (mural)

Perineural invasion
Absent

Histologically confirmed distant metastases
MX	Cannot be assessed histologically

Background abnormalities/other comments
Fibrous obliteration of the appendix tip.

Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour

Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status (block A8)
MLH1		Loss of nuclear staining
PMS2		Loss of nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining

Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.

BRAF V600E immunohistochemistry
Positive

Summary &amp;#8211; AJCC 8th Edition
pT4a   	N1a	   MX        R0
