SPR no: 51U759702L
MRN no: 10451454
Site_name: BOWRAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
75 year old. Previous left oophorectomy.  1.  Right tube and ovary; 2.  Omentum; 3.  Appendices epiploica; 4.  Bowel serosa biopsies.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube.  The fallopian tube is 50mm in length x 7mm in maximum diameter.  The fimbria cannot be definitively identified.  The ovary is 42 x 33 x 28mm.  The cut surface of the ovary shows an ill-defined partially encapsulated solid and cystic lesion. The solid areas comprise pale yellow friable tissue separated by firm white fibrous septa.  Blocks: 1 - possible fimbria; 2 - RS presumed fallopian tube; 3 to 7 - RS ovary with tumour.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Appendiceal epiploica&amp;quot;, consists of an unoriented piece of fatty tissue, 35 x 27 x 14mm.  The cut surface shows pale tan fibrous tissue with some possible adjacent fat necrosis.  Representative sections embedded in 2 blocks.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Small bowel serosa&amp;#8221;, consists of three pieces of tan tissue, 3 to 10mm in maximum extent.  AE 1 block.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Omentum&amp;#8221;, consists of a piece of omentum, 250 x 110 x 20mm.  The cut surface shows multiple cream coloured nodules ranging from 3 to 7mm in maximum extent.  Blocks: 1 - one nodule bisected; 2 to 4 - RS additional nodules.  (TO:SE/eh 22/2/70)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr N Chaix):
A. Sections show extensive fibrosis and necrosis, involving approximately 80% of the ovary, consistent with treatment effect. Patchy residual high grade serous carcinoma, composed of tumour cells with enlarged, pleomorphic nuclei and prominent nucleoli are seen. Slit-like lumens, giant nucleoli and calcifications are present.
Microscopic tumour with extensive fibrosis is present in the fallopian tube. No in situ carcinoma is seen.
B. Sections show fat with focal high grade serous carcinoma. Fibrosis is seen, suggestive of treatment effect. Two uninvolved lymph nodes are also present.
C. Sections show serosa and underlying fibrous tissue with high grade serous carcinoma. Extensive fibrosis is seen, suggestive of treatment effect.
D. Sections show omental fat with patchy deposits of high grade serous carcinoma. Fibrosis is seen, suggestive of treatment effect.
Chemotherapy Reponse Score (CRS)
Score 2: &amp;#160;Partial tumour response (regression associated fibro-inflammatory changes with readily identifiable viable tumour).


DIAGNOSIS:
A to D. Right ovary and fallopian tube, appendices epiploica, small bowel serosa and omentum: high grade serous carcinoma with treatment effect
&amp;#160;
