SPR no: 38X512572P
MRN no: 3895125
Site_name: CRAIGIEBURN HEALTH SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
(R) hemicolectomy.  Tumour just above ileocaecal valve.  Clinical diagram on the form.


MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled:  Hemicolectomy.

Specimen
Specimen length:  300mm.
Length of terminal ileum:  100mm.
Length of caecum/ascending colon:  200mm.
Thickness of mesocolon:  up to 80mm.
Appendix:  65mm in length and a diameter of 7mm.  The serosal surface is smooth and shiny.

Tumour
Location:  Distal to and above ileocaecal valve.
Description:  A circumferential tan lesion with raised edges and ulcerated centre.  The cut surface shows tumour eroded into at least muscularis propria layer.
Maximum tumour diameter: 70mm.
Perforation:  Absent.
Appearance of serosa overlying tumour:  Serosal surface and attached mesocolic fat are puckered at the site of tumour.
Distance of tumour to proximal cut end: 105mm.
Distance of tumour to distal cut end: 130mm.
Distance of tumour to circumferential margin: 80mm.

Other
Polyps:  Nil identified.
Adherent structures: Nil identified.
Inked margins: Proximal blue, distal black, puckered area green.

Blocks
1 - LS proximal margin; 2 - LS distal margin; 3 - LS ileocaecal valve; 4 - RS appendix; 5 to 8 - full TS of tumour with the deepest invasion; 9 &amp;amp; 10 - composite sections thickest region of tumour; 11 &amp;amp; 12 - RS deepest invasion; 13 - second RS deepest invasion; 14 - shave of apical area; 15 to 18 - lymph nodes as seen; 19 - one lymph node; 20 to 23 - lymph nodes as seen. (TO:JT/ta 23/8/71)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr I Lembrick):
Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with focal mucinous differentiation.
Mucinous differentiation is seen in approximately 20% of the tumour.  A synoptic report follows:

Type:  Adenocarcinoma with focal mucinous differentiation.

Differentiation by predominant area:  Moderate.

Local invasion:  T4a - Tumour penetrates the surface of the visceral peritoneum (Block 7).

Tumour involvement of margins:
Cut ends:  Not involved.
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:   Not involved.
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  80 mm.

Lymph nodes:  N0 - No regional LN metastasis.
Number of lymph nodes present:  22.
Number of lymph nodes involved:  0.
Extramural tumour deposits:  Absent.

Lymphovascular invasion:  Absent.

Perineural invasion:  Absent.

Tumour budding:  Bd2 (intermediate) - 5 to 9 buds per 0.785 sq mm.

Histologically confirmed distant metastases:  MX - Cannot be assessed histologically.

Background abnormalities/other comments:  The ileum, appendix and uninvolved colon shows no significant abnormalty.

Residual tumour status:  R0 - No residual tumour.

Response to neoadjuvant therapy:  Not applicable.

Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status
MLH1    Loss of nuclear staining.
PMS2    Loss of nuclear staining.
MSH2    Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6    Preserved nuclear staining.

Comment:  Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.

BRAF V600E immunohistochemistry:  To follow.

Summary (AJCC 8th Edition):  T4a  N0  MX  R0


DIAGNOSIS:
Right hemicolectomy specimen
-  Adenocarcinoma with focal mucinous differentiation, T4a N0 MX R0
ADDENDUM (Dr I Tadych on 1/9/69):

BRAF V600E immunohistochemistry:  Positive.
