SPR no: 24M302588G
MRN no: 1008884
Site_name: EUDUNDA HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report
CLINICAL:
Endometrial cancer with likely nodal involvement and raised Ca 125.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus, bilateral tubes, ovaries and cervix&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes, and bilateral ovaries, weighing 88g.  The uterus measures 72 x 48 x 33mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The anterior cervical margin is inked blue and the posterior cervical margin is inked black.  The ectocervix measures 25 x 24mm and shows no significant abnormality.  The endometrial cavity contains an exophytic tan tumour, approximately 30 x 30 x 20mm.  The myometrium is up to 12mm in thickness.  No definite myometrial invasion is identified.  The left fallopian tube, 50 x 6 x 5mm, and left ovary, 25 x 14 x 10mm, show no significant abnormality.  The right fallopian tube, 48 x 5 x 4mm, and right ovary, 28 x 17 x 10mm, show no significant abnormality.
Blocks: 1 to 4 - midline LS anterior uterus and cervix; 5 to 8 - anterior uterus, ?deepest invasion; 9 to 11 - midline LS posterior uterus and cervix; 12 - left fallopian tube; 13 - left ovary; 14 - right fallopian tube; 15 - right ovary.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left external iliac sentinel lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of fibroadipose tissue, 45 x 23 x 8mm in aggregate, containing two lymph nodes, 7 and 13mm.  Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - one lymph node per block.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right pelvic lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of fibroadipose tissue, 50 x 40 x 30mm in aggregate, containing lymph nodes.  The largest lymph node measures approximately 30mm and appears involved by tumour.  Blocks: 1 - multiple lymph nodes; 2 - RS involved lymph node.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omental biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of omentum, 45 x 30 x 17mm.  The serosal surface is smooth and shiny.  No lymph nodes or tumour deposits are identified.  RS 3 blocks.
(TO:XI/eh 14/2/66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr G Bay):
A.  The sections show a clear cell carcinoma of the endometrium.  The tumour has prominent papillary architecture, some of which have collagen cores.  Many of the tumour cells have clear cytoplasm.  There is marked nuclear atypia.  The tumour is predominantly exophytic, and has a depth of invasion of 2mm through a myometrial wall thickness of 8mm.  The ectocervix and endocervix show no significant abnormality.  Multifocal lymphovascular invasion is seen, including tumour within a muscularised blood vessel.  There is an incidental granuloma with possible necrosis in the right paratubal soft tissue, of uncertain clinical significance.  PASF and FITE stains are negative for fungi and mycobacteria, respectively.  The fallopian tube and ovaries show no involvement by tumour.

Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status (block A8)
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining

Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

B.  The sections of the left external iliac sentinel lymph node show two of two lymph nodes positive for metastatic clear cell carcinoma (2/2).  Extranodal extension is seen in one of the lymph nodes.

C.  The sections of the right pelvic lymph node show one of three lymph nodes positive for metastatic clear cell carcinoma (1/3).  The involved lymph node is 30mm and is almost entirely replaced by tumour.  Extranodal extension is present.

D.  The sections of omentum show no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus with cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries:  Clear cell carcinoma of the endometrium.
B.  Left external iliac sentinel lymph node:  Two of two lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma (2/2).  Extranodal extension present.
C.  Right pelvic lymph node:  One of three lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma (1/3).  Extranodal extension present.
D.  Omental biopsy:  No evidence of malignancy.
