SPR no: 62B784923I
MRN no: 2083596
Site_name: SOUTH EAST REGIONAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT  1 (please see below)
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT  2 (please see below)

CLINICAL:
Endometrial Ca.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus, tubes, ovaries, + cervix&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 172 grams in total.  The uterus measures 130 x 49 x 50mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The uterus is partially opened on the anterior aspect.  The ectocervix measures 40 x 30mm and has a smooth shiny surface with blue dye.  There are two intramural fibroids, the first located at the fundus, measuring up to 45mm in diameter, and a second measuring 12mm in the anterior myometrium. The majority of the posterior endometrium is abnormal with exophytic pale tissue, which may represent tumour or a fibroid. The anterior endometrium appears smooth. On sectioning, the endometrium is 3mm in maximum thickness, and the myometrium is 27mm in maximum thickness.  In the superior aspect with the fibroid included, the myometrium extends to 37mm in maximum thickness.  The percentage of endometrial invasion into the myometrium is approximately ten percent. In the posterior myometrium where there is possible tumour/fibroid, the percentage of endometrial invasion is approximately sixty percent with the endometrium being up to 18mm in maximum thickness. The right fallopian tube measures 50mm in length and 8mm in maximum diameter. There is a 4 x 2 x 1mm tan papule on the right fallopian tube close to where adjoins the uterus. The right ovary measures 27 x 17 x 8mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.  The left fallopian tube measures 55mm in length and has a maximum diameter of 5mm.  The left ovary measures 28 x 23 x 10mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.   Blocks: 1 to 5 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 6 to 12 - right anterior endomyometrium; 13 to 19 - left anterior endomyometrium; 20 to 26 - full LS of posterior body and cervix; 27 to 32 - right posterior endomyometium; 33 to 43 - left posterior endomyometrium (the entire endometrium is embedded); 44 - two TS right fallopian tube, including with papule; 45 - LS right fimbrae; 46 and 47 - TS entire right ovary; 48 - two TS left fallopian tube; 49 - LS left fimbriae; 50 to 52 - TS entire left ovary.  Please refer to blocking diagram.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omental biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fat 85 x 50 x 10mm.  Blocks: 1 to 3 - RS.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right pelvic&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fat up to 64 x 40 x 9mm.  Eight lymph nodes identified ranging in size from 3 to up to 16mm.  Blocks: 1 - lymph nodes as seen; 2 to 4 - one lymph node per block bisected; 5 to 7 - remaining fatty tissue.  AE.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left pelvic nodes&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fat 40 x 37 x 10mm.  Seven possible lymph nodes are identified ranging in size from 2 to 30mm.  Blocks: 1 - lymph nodes as seen; 2 and 3- largest lymph node bisected; 4 and 5- remaining fatty tissue.  AE.
(TO:KY/vo 5/5/67)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr R Perches):
A.  The uterus is extensively sampled. Sections show a grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma  arising from the posteriorly uterine body. The carcinoma is composed of tubular and complex glandular structures lined by columnar cells with grade 2 nuclei. There is a patchy mucinous differentiation. In areas the tumour shows more complex solid architecture. The  features are compatible with an overall FIGO tumour grade of 2.  The tumour invades the myometrium 13 mm into wall 24 mm thick (A23 +A24)There are numerous a focus  of lymphovascular invasion at the advancing edge of tumour (e.g. A38, A37, A34). Focally the  tumour shows solid architecture with cytoplasmic clearing and tumour cells with a squared off nuclear borders; a minor component of clear cell carcinoma cannot entirely be excluded (Block A23).  The ectocervix and endocervix are uninvolved and unremarkable. Away from the tumour the endometrium is essentially inactive.  The myometrium also shows several large leiomyomas.

The right and left ovaries show senescent changes and no evidence of malignancy.

The right and left fallopian tubes are  unremarkable and shows no evidence of in-situ or invasive malignancy.

B.  Sections show mature adipose tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy.

C.  Seven lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/7).

D.  Eight lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/8).


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus and cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries:
-    Grade 2 endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinoma, invades 13mm through myometrium 24mm thick, extensive lymphovascular invasion, perineural invasion not seen, cervix not involved, large uterine leiomyomas,  unremarkable ovaries and fallopian tubes.
-    Mismatch repair enzyme to follow.
B.  Omental biopsy:
-    No evidence of malignancy.
C.  Right pelvic nodes:
-     Seven negative lymph nodes (0/7).
D.  Left pelvic nodes:
-    Eight negative lymph nodes (0/8).

Selected slides seen in consultation with Dr R Hanahan.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 1 (6.8.70) (Reported by Dr R Back)

Immunohistochemistry:
Mismatch Repair Deficiency Protein Expression (MMRD) Status
MLH1		Preserved (normal pattern) nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved (normal pattern) nuclear staining (patchy)
MSH2		Preserved  (normal pattern) nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved  (normal pattern) nuclear staining

Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.  The PMS2 stain will be repeated.

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (28.10.67) (Reported by Dr R Prince)
MSI immunohistochemistry for the enzyme dimer pair MLH1 and PMS2 was repeated due to focal/patchy staining originally.  A different tumour block is selected.  In the presence of an adequate internal control the result is as follows:

Immunohistochemistry:
Mismatch Repair Deficiency Protein Expression (MMRD) Status
MLH1		loss of nuclear staining
PMS2		loss of nuclear staining

Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6, as seen in this case,  is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation (Lynch syndrome) or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.  Further investigation is advised.

The findings were discussed with Dr R Langarica.
