 127638.CBA 
Burwell, LYDIA 
12T63800 

Last edited : 7/4/2063	Page: 1

CLINICAL:
1.  Mass tail of pancreas.  2. Proximal 60cm small bowel from DJ turn.  3. Distal small bowel tumour 60cm prox IC valve. 
Additional information from clinical letters: IPMN in proximal pancreas on CT scan ( not excised ).
MACROSCOPIC:
A. Specimen labelled "Distal pancreas" consists of a tail of pancreas 90 x 65 x 38mm with a piece of attached peripancreatic fat 60 x 35 x 25mm.  Along one edge there is a stapled resection margin 55mm in length.  The stapled resection margin is inked black, the superior margin is inked green and the posterior margin is inked blue.  The cut surface reveals a heterogeneous cream/tan circumscribed tumour occupying the majority of the specimen measuring 44 x 35 x 32mm.  An artery and vein are identified in the superior aspect of the specimen.  A dilated duct is identified near the surgical resection margin.  The tumour comes to 13mm from the stapled resection margin.  The tumour abuts the anterior pancreatic surface and come to within 3mm of the posterior pancreatic margin, 9mm from the superior pancreatic margin and abuts the inferior pancreatic border.  The tumour appears to abut the vein near the superior margin.  Two lymph nodes are identified in the superior aspect of the specimen.  One lymph node is identified in the peripancreatic fat.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - full face of tumour; 4 to 6 - stapled resection margin to tumour; 7 - superior edge of tumour including lymph nodes; 8 - tumour to posterior aspect of pancreas; 9 - uninvolved pancreas; 10 - reserve block; 11 - lymph node.
B. Specimen labelled "Proximal small bowel" consists of a length of small bowel 
63mm in length.  There is a full thickness defect 20mm from one resection margin.  There is a polypoid ulcerated tumour 25 x 20 x 17mm, 17mm from one resection margin.  Tumour is serially sectioned longitudinally.
Blocks:  1 to 4 - tumour and mucosa to closest margin; 5 - representative margin furthest from tumour; 6 - reserve block.
C. Specimen labelled "Distal small bowel" consists of a length of small bowel 52mm in length.  There is a nodular partly ulcerated tumour measuring 22 x 20 x 14mm which is 20mm from the nearest resection margin.  The cut surface reveals a firm relatively well circumscribed homogenous cream tumour.  Near one of the resection margins within the wall of the bowel there is a further 7mm cream tumour 10cm from the resection margin.  No lymph nodes are identified in the small bowel fat.  Blocks:  1 to 3 - tumour to one resection margin; 4 & 5 - smaller tumour identified near one resection margin; 6 - representative TS through tumour; 7 - tumour to other resection margin.  (TP/cc  27/3/63); 8 to 13 ? rest of mesentery.  (ta 3/4/63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr E Broadwater): 
A. Sections show a circumscribed mass of low cellularity in the pancreas.  The lesion shows extensive sclerosis, with scattered lymphoid aggregates being present in the centre as well as the periphery.  Occasional reactive germinal centres are seen.  Also present are single and aggregates of plasma cells. Scattered, single spindle cells with bland elongated nuclei are present in the stroma.  Areas of infarction and occasional calcified psammoma bodies are seen in the lesion. At the periphery of the lesion, the adjacent pancreas shows focal periductal sclerosis and inflammation (A2), as well as focal atrophy.  There is no definite venulitis. The lesion is clear of margins.
The lesion shows no evidence of staining for c-kit, CD34, desmin, EMA, neurofilament, S100 or SMA. Ki67 index is < 1%.
At the proximal end of the specimen, there are multiple dilated cysts lined by ductal epithelium showing mild nuclear pleomorphism, focal mucosal infolding and focal nuclear stratification. The lesion focally involves the stapled proximal resection margin (A6).
Five lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy.
COMMENT:
The findings are of a benign sclerotic lesion of the pancreas, with foci of inflammation. The morphology would favour an IgG4-related sclerosing (autoimmune) pancreatitis. The case will be referred to A/Prof HOWARD Edstrom, COOKTOWN HOSPITAL Hospital for an expert opinion and IgG4 staining. 
Multiple dilated cysts lined by epithelium with low grade dysplasia are present at the proximal specimen.  In the context of a known IPMN in the proximal pancreas on imaging, the features are being keeping with intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) with low grade dysplasia. The lesion focally involves the proximal margin.
There is no evidence of invasive malignancy.
B. Sections show an ulcerated, circumscribed lesion involving the mucosa and underlying submucosa.  Lesion is composed of interlacing fascicles of smooth muscle cells with positive staining for SMA and desmin. c-kit, CD34 and S100 are negative. Ki67 index is < 1%. No mitoses are seen.  The findings are in keeping with a benign leiomyoma.  The lesion is clear of the margins.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 
C. Sections show 2 separate lesions in the small bowel.
The larger 22 mm lesion is based in the submucosa.  The lesion is of low cellularity is composed of scattered bland spindled and stellate cells in myxoid stroma.  Mixed inflammatory infiltrate composed of eosinophils leucocytes and mast cells is present.  Small vessels with ?onion-skinning? are seen. The lesion show positive staining for 
CD34. c-kit, desmin, EMA, neurofilament, S100 and SMA are negative. Ki67 index is < 1%. The features would favour an inflammatory fibre polyp. The lesion is clear of the margins.
The smaller 7 mm lesion is a neuroendocrine tumour, grade 1 (carcinoid) tumour (WHO 2010). The lesion is submucosa and shows focal extension into the mucosa and muscularis propria.  There are < 2 mitoses per 10 hpf. No necrosis is present. Ki67 index is < 2%. The tumour cells are positive for NSE, CD56 and chromogranin. Focal staining is present for synaptophysin and serotonin. Gastrin and somatostatin are negative.  Foci suspicious for lymphovascular invasion are seen at the periphery. The lesion is clear of the margins.
1  lymph node with no evidence of malignancy.
Representative sections shown to Dr MATHEW UPTON and Dr MIQUEL FOSDICK.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Distal pancreas:
- Distal 44mm benign sclerosing lesion with inflammation, favour IgG4-related sclerosing (autoimmune) pancreatitis (see comment), margins clear
- Proximal 5mm, intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) with low grade dysplasia, focal positive proximal margin (see comment) -  5 lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy
B. Proximal small bowel:
-  25mm benign leiomyoma, margins clear
C. Distal small bowel:
- 22mm benign polyp with features favouring an inflammatory fibroid polyp, margins clear
- 7mm neuroendocrine tumour, grade 1 (carcinoid) tumour (WHO 2010), with focal involvement of the muscularis propria, suspicious for lymphovascular invasion, stage pT1a (AJCC 7th Ed.), margins clear
- 1 lymph node with no evidence of malignancy
Slides and tissue will be sent to A/Prof ELLSWORTH Vigario, BARWON HEALTH - ASHLEY MANOR CAMPUS Hospital for an expert opinion and IgG4 staining.
