Episode No:  31H064971E
313064.XUD

BOULTINGHOUSE, STEPHAN 
Lab No:  31H06497
W Burville
KOO-WEE-RUP    3174
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  23/3/1988
Sex:  M
Collected: 14/01/2014 at 11:33
Location:  Forensic Medicine-ALBURY WODONGA HEALTH - ALBURY CAMPUS
DR Monroe Emanuel Bigg
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Liposarcoma (mixed high /low grade) of L spermatic cord, previously excised.  Re-excision of left lower abdo wall.  Short stitch superior (skin), long lateral (on fascia).  Medium medial (fascia).  Please refer to diagram on request form.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left groin sarcoma short stitch superior long stitch lateral medium stitch medial" consists of an ellipse of skin measuring 145 x 60mm with a suture (superior) to a depth of 85mm to deep fascia and muscle.  There are two marking sutures on the fascia (long lateral, medium medial).  The skin has a linear scar measuring 110mm in length.  Otherwise the skin appears unremarkable.  The superior stitch is designated 9 o'clock and the specimen is inked as follows:  3 o'clock blue, 9 o'clock black (3 o'clock is inferior, lateral 12 o'clock, medial 6 o'clock, superior 12 o'clock). The cut surface shows homogenous adipose tissue with thick fibrous ?scar tissue in the deep dermis to facia.  Surgical mesh is also noted within the facia.  No discreet mass is identified.  Representative sections.  Please see diagram.  
(BD/ta 17/32064).  
Blocks: 1 to 5 - full longitudinal section of medial (6 o'clock) margin; 6 to 13 - composite blocks slice two; 14 to 23 -composite blocks slice five; 24 to 33 - composite blocks slice six; 34 to 39 - composite blocks slice seven deep aspect only; 40 to 46 -composite blocks slice nine; 47 to 51 - composite blocks slice twelve; 52 to 54 - one full longitudinal section of lateral margin (12 o'clock). (GS/vo 15.3.64) 
B.  Specimen labelled "L retroperitoneal ?sarcoma" consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 50 x 30 x 8mm and 90 x 55 x 20mm.  Both specimens are unorientated.  The largerfragment has a firm grey tan nodular area over 25 x 15 x 15mm which is surrounded by lobules of fibrofatty tissue.  On sectioning the tan nodule has a grey sclerotic appearance.  The rest of the tissue has a pale yellow homogenous fatty surface.  Representative 13 blocks.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - smaller fragment; 4 to 13 - larger fragment (4 to 7 - tan nodular area AE).  (YC/ta 17/32064) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr K Hatman)
A.  Sections are of skin extending to deep subcutaneous tissue, including skeletal muscle and fascia towards the deep aspect. Residual/recurrent well differentiated liposarcoma is present withinsubcutaneous tissue and extends from the medial side of the specimen along its posteroinferior aspect, inferior to the attached deep fascia. The well differentiated liposarcoma consists of scattered moderately to highly pleomorphic hyperchromatic nuclei within adipose and fibrous tissue (mixed lipogenic and sclerosing type). The surrounding dermocutaneous and fascial tissue shows extensive changes consistent with previous surgery. No evidence of de-differentiation in the extensive sections examined. The margins of excision are as follows:
Deep margin: Present at margin (block 31 and 45).
Inferior margin: Present at margin (blocks 9 and 18).
Medial margin: Present at margin (block 5).
Superior margin: 8.0mm.
Lateral margin: 8.0mm.
Superficial (cutaneous) margin: >10mm.
B.  Sections of the left retroperitoneal tissue include adipose and fibrous tissue showing features consistent with well differentiated liposarcoma (mixed lipogenic,sclerosing and inflammatory type). The well differentiated liposarcoma consists predominantly of adipocytes showing mild variation in size with occasional atypical enlarged hyperchromatic nuclei. Scattered fibrous septae containing atypical hyperchromatic nuclei, as well as, patchy chronic inflammatory changes are also present. The liposarcoma extends focally to the surgical margin. Within the surrounding mature adipose tissue there is an entrapped tubular structure, lined by (focally ciliated) pseudostratified epithelium with surrounding basal cells and laminated smooth muscle, favoured to represent a portion of the ductus deferens. Patchy changes consistent with previous surgery are present. There isno evidence of de-differentiation in the sections examined. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left groin lesion: 
Residual/recurrent well differentiated liposarcoma, margins involved (see above). 
No evidence of de-differentiation.

B.  Left retroperitoneal lesion: 
Consistent with well differentiated liposarcoma, margins focally involved. 
No evidence of de-differentiation.
Incidental epithelial lined tubular structure, favour portion of ductus deferens. 

 

