Episode No:  73S598200E
7375982.CBE

SPERANZA, Tracey Kareem 
Lab No:  73S59820
Cyril Magnin
BERRI  SA  2606
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  20/2/2008
Sex:  M
Collected: 3/10/2063 at :
Location:  PARKES 4 EAST-CENTRAL GIPPSLAND HEALTH SERVICE (SALE)
DR ZACKARY Jarlu STATIRES
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY, DR Plona
CLINICAL:
Nasopharyngeal liver met.  Node omentum, frozen section.  Bile duct node, frozen section.  Gallbladder, left hepatectomy, common hepatic artery lymph node, hilar lymph node.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Omental lymph node" consists of a lymph node measuring 13mm in diameter.  The cut surfaces are unremarkable.  Part of the specimen is embedded for frozen section.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section; 2 - remaining tissue.  AE two blocks. 
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:  No evidence of malignancy.
Phone result to Dr T Rudlong by Dr T Sheen at 1720hr on 8/1/13.
B.  Specimen labelled "Bile duct (frozen)" consists of a lymph node measuring 7mm in diameter.  The cut surfaces are unremarkable.  Part of the specimen is embedded 
for frozen section.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section; 2 - remaining tissue.  AE two blocks. 
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:No evidence of malignancy.
Phone result to Dr T Halgrimson by Dr T Maginn at 1730hr on 8/1/13.
C.  Specimen labelled "Left hepatectomy (liver tumour)" consists of left hepatectomy weighing 498g post fixation and measuring 145 x 110 x 62mm.  On the anterior inferior aspect there is a nodule on the capsular surface measuring up to approximately 40mm in diameter.  On the posterior inferior surface the capsule appears firm with a white lesion over an area up to 50mm in diameter.  The capsular surface appears intact.  On sectioning there is asubcapsular tumour measuring up to 70 x 75 x 54mm.  The tumour abuts the anterior and posterior capsular margins and possibly extends into the perihilar fat.  The tumour is located within 29mm of the parenchyma surgical margin which is inked blue.  The hilar fat margin is inked green.  The bare area is inked black.  
Blocks: 1 - representative tumour; 2 - representative tumour with anterior capsule; 3- Representative tumour with capsule; 4 & 5 - perihilar area with suture and staple removed; 6 & 7 - hilar fat at area with suture and staples removed; 8 - representative tumour with perihilar fat margin; 9 - tumour reserve block; 10-representative tumour with hilar fat margin; 11 - section through ?ligament; 12 & 13 - representative tumour; 14 - representative uninvolved liver parenchyma.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of gallbladder measuring up to 85mm in length and 35mm in maximum diameter.  The serosalsurface is unremarkable.  No cystic duct lymph nodes are seen and there are no gallstones in the gallbladder or specimen container.  The gallbladder is otherwise unremarkable. 
Blocks: 1 - TS cystic duct surgical margin; 2 - two TS body; 3 - two LS fundus.  
E.Specimen labelled "Hilar lymph node" consists of a node measuring up to 13mm.  TAE 1 block.
F.  Specimen labelled "Common hepatic lymph node" consists of a node measuring up to 39 x 28 x 10mm.  Specimen serially sectioned AE 3 blocks. 
(PN/cc  3/11/63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr T Fleischacker): 
A & B.  Paraffin sections confirm no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Sections of liver show infiltration by large cell carcinoma with extensive areas of necrosis.  The tumour cells are arranged in infiltrating nests and have a squamoid appearance with intracellular bridges.  The tumour cells have pleomorphic nuclei with palechromatin and prominent nucleoli.  There is a mild lymphocytic infiltrate within the tumour nests.  The appearances are consistent with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma consistent with a nasopharyngeal primary.  The tumour infiltrates liver parenchyma and also focally extends into hilar fibroadipose tissue coming to within approximately 2mm of the hilar resection margin.  Carcinoma does not appear to breach the liver capsule.  The surrounding liver parenchyma shows no significant abnormality.  
D.  Sections of the gallbladder show no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 
E.  The single lymph node identified shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 
F.   The single lymph node identified shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Omental lymph node:  No evidence of malignancy. 
B.  Bile duct lymph node:  No evidence of malignancy. 
C.  Left hepatectomy:  
- Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma consistent with nasopharyngeal primary. 
- Excision appears complete.
D.  Gallbladder:  No significant abnormality. 
E.  Hilar lymph node:  No evidence of malignancy. 
F.  Common hepatic artery lymph node:  No evidence of malignancy. 




