Episode No:  07L190417H
074190.MFS

Reedus, KELLIE 
Lab No:  07L19041
Monetary
KYABRAM  Victoria  7000
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  3/5/2011
Sex:  F
Collected: 01/11/2012 at 09:11
Location:  West-NAMBOUR GENERAL HOSPITAL
DR DONALD Jeremiah Burg
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Recurrent pseudomyxoma.  Peritonei and bowel obstruction.  
(Tumour shows origin from appendix).  
(Previous - low grade mucinous neoplasm - 07L19041).
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel" consists of a segment of small bowel measuring 225mm in length and up to 45mm in width.  The external surface of the small bowel is focally haemorrhagic and shows extensive fibrousadhesions some of which appear mucinous.  Approximately 30mm from one resection margin is an area of tumour invasion and stricture formation measuring 25 x 20mm.  Approximately 25mm from the other resection margin is a multicystic tumour, 6 x 10 x 5mm located within the serosal layer.  Three mucinous cystic nodules are also present within the small bowel mesentery.  Several small uninvolved nodes are present within the mesentery.
Blocks:  1- shave blue margin; 2- shave green margin; 3 to 5 - representative sections of wall tumour; 6 to 9 - representative sections of disrupted mucosal lesions; 10 - representative sections adhesions; 11 - two lymph nodes; 12 - two lymph nodes; 13 - six possible lymph nodes; 14 - five possible lymph nodes; 15 to 19 - representative mesenteric fat with possible lymph nodes.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Intraabdominal tumour" consists of a tumour which is cystic in nature and filled with gelatinous material.  Thewall of the cyst measures up to 8mm.  There is a nodule on the cyst surface measuring up to 10mm.  The surrounding mucinous peritoneum shows mucinous deposits.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representative sections of tumour including nodule area;3 - representative section of remainder of cyst; 4 to 7 - representative sections of attached peritoneum; (Blocks:  B8 & B9 - reserved tumour block).  
-----------------------
B.  Specimen labelled "Intraabdominal tumour" consists of fibrous peritoneum with cyst attachedmeasuring up to 70mm in maximal diameter with multiple separate pieces of gelatinous material measuring in aggregate 100 x 100 x 50mm.  The peritoneum and cyst are covered in fibrous adhesions.
--------------------
C.  Specimen labelled "Gastric nodule" consists of a well circumscribed nodule measuring 34 x 27 x 20mm.  The external surface is smooth and glistening.  There is no mucosa but a small amount of fatty tissue attached.  On cut section it is uniformly nodular, glistening with transparent multicystic areas containing mucus.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - representative sections in 3 blocks (Blocks:  C3 -reserved block)
(VX/mm 3.1.62) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr C Hobbie):
A.  The small bowel tumour, 30mm from one resection margin shows a low grade invasive mucinous tumour which has extended through the full thickness of the bowel wall and has replaced much of the mucosa in this area.  Tumour is also present within the adjacent serosa.  This tumour shows both architectural, cytological and invasive features of a well differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma.
The multicystic tumour 25mm from the other resection margin shows a multicystic low grade mucinous neoplasm.  The nodules within the mesentery as well as the deposits within the serosal adhesions have a similar appearance. Several small lymph nodes  are identified and these appear normal. 
B.  Sections show a low grade mucinous neoplasm with cyst formation.  The attached peritoneum also shows widespread invasion by low grade mucinous neoplasm and the tumour invades to the attached skeletal muscle.  
C.  The gastric nodule shows low grade mucinous neoplasm attached to the muscularis externa of the stomach.  
COMMENT:  
The appearance of the small bowel tumour which has invaded through the full thickness of the wall and replaced the mucosa is that of a well differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma.  This tumour appears to have progressed and has become more invasive and cellular compared with the previous recurrence.  The epithelium is proliferative and the invasive glands are of irregular shape.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A, B & C.  Small bowel resection plus intraabdominal tumour and gastric nodule:
-  Well differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma invading small bowel.
-  Low grade invasive mucinous neoplasm involving small bowel serosa and mesentery, intraabdominal tumour, peritoneum and gastric nodule (pseudomyxoma peritonei). 
 
  
  

