Episode No:  61D289605O
6112896.BOO

Creenan, CLAIR'VANNESSA 
Lab No:  61D28960,61D28960
Hamstrom
STIRLING  New South Wales  2500
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  2/8/2003
Sex:  F
Collected: 16/6/2064 at :
Location:  DICKINSON 3 NORTH - PORT PIRIE HOSPITAL
DR RUEBEN JUAN ALDRIGE
Distribution:  DR DWAIN,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Pelvic mass.  Frozen section left tube and ovaries .  Ca 125 = 50.  Strong family Hx of gynaecological cancers.  Personal Hx breast cancer.  Breast cancer age51, chemo/radiation.  4x LSCS.  CVA.  Obesity.  Hypothyroidism.  PTSD.  Cholecystectomy.  
Additional history from Prof Q Overbey - Previous breast Ca.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary frozen", consists of a solid and cystic mass, 60 x 45 x 35mm, weighing 51g.  The fallopian tube is not definitely identified.  On sectioning, the cyst is predominately solid with a tan fleshy appearance with areas of haemorrhage and necrosis.  The cystic areas contain serous fluid.  
Blocks: 1 and 2 - RS of solid area for frozen section; 3 and 4 - tumour with ?overlying tube; 5 to 7 - solid component tumour; 8 - ? residual ovary; 9 - attached adipose tissue.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT: 
Poorly differentiated carcinoma - ?undifferentiated - ?serous carcinoma. Await paraffins.  
Phone results to Prof Q Earls by Dr Q Herrea at 9:55am on 14.4.14
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus cervix right tube and ovary", consists of uterus with cervix and attached right fallopian tube and ovary, weighing 66g total.  The uterus and cervix is 85 x 50 x 30mm.  The ectocervix is 20 x 14mm.  The right ovary is 25 x 20 x 15mm.  The right fallopian tube is 30mm in length.  The endometrium is less than 1mm thick.  The myometrium is up to 19mm thick.  No focal myometrial lesions are seen.  The serosa is smooth and shiny.  
Blocks: 1 to 4 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix; 5 to 7 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix; 8 and 9 - right ovary AE; 10 right fallopian tube.
C.  Specimen labelled "Sigmoid nodule", consists of two fragments of fatty tissue 5 and 10mm across.  Thelarger fragment has a 3mm nodule.  Specimen is AE 1 block. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Sigmoid colon nodule", consists of a piece of fatty tissue covered on one surface by serosa, 20 x 18 x 10mm.  Within the tissue is a circumscribed 14mm nodule.  
Blocks: 1 - two cross sections.
E.  Specimen labelled "Rectal nodule", consists of two pieces of fatty tissue each covered by peritoneum on one surface, 15 and 20mm across.  Within each fragment is a circumscribed tumour nodule, each 10mm across.  
Blocks: 1 - cross section through each nodule.
F.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of a sheet of greater omentum, 560 x 225 x 35mm.  Within the omentum isa deposit of tumour, 25mm across.  Two smaller nodules of tumour each 5mm across are also identified.  
Blocks: 1 - largest tumour deposit; 2 - two smaller tumour nodules; 3 - RS omentum.  (TO: DY;VU/vo 17.6.64)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Q Breyers):
A.  Sections of the tumour show a poorly differentiated carcinoma.  This consists of sheets and trabeculae of cells with large, pleomorphic nuclei and a moderate amount of eosinophilic cytoplasm.  There are scattered cells present with very large, highly atypical nuclei.  There is patchy tumour necrosis.  No differentiating features are seen.  Residual fallopian tube is identified in some sections (blocks A3, A4, A7); the tube is distended.  There is tumour present on the serosal surface of the tube and, in one section (A7) tumour involves the tube wall.  Residual ovary is also noted in one section (block A8); this is not involved by tumour and no ovarian tissue is identified in the tumour sections.  
The appearances are of a poorly differentiated carcinoma consistent with mullerian type.  The fallopian tube is involved by tumour and the only ovarian tissue identified is not involved; the tumour may therefore be of tubal origin.  

Immunostains:
CA125:   Positive.
WT1:   Positive.
Oestrogen receptor:   Positive.  100% of tumour cells stain.  
                                   Predominant intensity of staining:  Strong.
Progesterone receptor:   Negative.
Cytokeratin 7:   Some patchy positive staining.
Cytokeratin 20:   Negative. 
B.  Sections of the cervix are unremarkable.  Sections of the endometrium show that this is thinand inactive.  Sections of the myometrium are unremarkable.  Sections of the right ovary and fallopian tube are unremarkable.  
C.  Sections show fibrofat with a small nodule of metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.  There is an associated chronic inflammatory reaction.  
D.  Sections show a deposit of metastatic poorly differentiatedcarcinoma within fibrofat.  The tumour cells have eosinophiliccytoplasm and some very large highly atypical cells are noted, including multinucleate tumour cells.  No differentiating features are seen. 
E.  Sections show a deposit of metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma within fibrofat. 
F.  Sections show two deposits of metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.  The third described nodule is a small reactive lymph node.    
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Left tube and ovary:  Poorly differentiated carcinoma consistent with mullerian type, ?fallopian tube origin. 
B.  Uterus, right ovary and fallopian tube:  No abnormality seen. 
C.  Sigmoid nodule:  Metastatic carcinoma.  
D.  Sigmoid colon nodule:  Metastatic carcinoma.   
E.  Rectal nodule:  Metastatic carcinoma.  
F.  Omentum:  Metastatic carcinoma.  
 

