Episode No:  30U948636P
3079486.IPP

Ponyah, ELMO 
Lab No:  30U94863
Claypits
PEREGIAN BEACH  QLD  3419
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  10/2/2027
Sex:  M
Collected: 13/09/2012 at 12:25
Location:  Radiation Oncology-DORRIGO MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
DR Jeffry Reuben FISCHEL
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
ADDITIONAL REPORT:  (5.3.63)

CLINICAL:
Large right parapharyngeal tumour - FNA as salivary tumour.  Right parapharyngeal space tumour level 2 nodes intra -op and present in scans.  Symptoms for 6years.  Right mass and right level 2 lymph nodes for histo.   
MACROSCOPIC:
Patient details checked by IT
A.  Specimen labelled "Right parapharyngeal tumour" consists of a nodular, partly cystic tumour 84 x 65 x 39mm, partly covered by membrane and weighing 87.3g.  No orientation is provided.  
Sectioning reveals a tan, fleshy partly cystic and focally necrotic cut surface.  The tumour extends to the resectionmargins.  
Blocks: 1 to 8 - representative tumour.  The specimen has been re-examined and further blocks are in progress. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Right level 2 lymph node" consists of unorientated fibroadipose tissue measuring 42 x 23 x17mm.
Blocks: 1 - lymph nodebisected; 2 - one lymph node bisected; 3 & 4 - one lymph node transversely sectioned; 5 - lymph nodes.   (QG /ta 16/11/62) 
  
  
MICROSCOPIC (reported by A/Prof I Didio):
A. and B. Sections show a primary salivary gland tumour with the overall architecture and cellular components of a pleomorphic adenoma.
Epithelial and myoepithelial elements are seen within a focally myxoid stroma.
In some areas the growth pattern is more solid and focal squamous metaplasia is noted, some of which shows moderate cytological atypia and mitoses. 
Clear cell change is also present.
Areas of cystic change are seen as well as foci of fibrinoid deposition, possibly related to the previous FNA.
The lesion has a predominantly circumscribed margin which appears largely bounded by a thin fibrous capsule. 
There are areas in which the capsule is absent and small nodules of tumour are present outside the main tumour mass. 
Tumour cells within blood vessels are also identified within tissue outside the main tumour mass. According to the WHO "Pathology and Genetics of Head and Neck Tumours, 2005", the presence of intravascular tumour cells in association with pleomorphic adenomas does not necessarily infer malignant potential.
Tumour abuts the inked surface of the specimen. Asmall amount of unremarkable salivary gland is seen in one section.
The lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy.
This difficult lesionhas been reviewed extensively within our department and there is divided opinion as to its biological potential. Whilst there is general agreement that this represents a pleomorphic adenoma, some pathologists,such as myself and Dr I Hackerott would regard this as a cellular variant of benign pleomorphic adenoma (with some atypical metaplasia) whereas other pathologists (Drs I Rosan and I Jerding) are concerned that there may be malignancy arising within a pre-existing pleomorphic adenoma.
I have discussed these findings with Dr I Kano, ENT Registrar, and the case has been referred to A/Prof LYNWOOD JAKUBIAK, HARVEY DISTRICT HOSPITAL Hospital for expert opinion.
Further sections are also in progress.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. RIGHT PARAPHARYNGEAL TUMOUR: CELLULAR PLEOMORPHIC ADENOMA WITH ATYPICAL FEATURES
B. RIGHT LEVEL 2 LYMPH NODES: NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY.
The further sections, blocks 9 - 18, show similarfeatures to the original sections. 
ADDITIONAL REPORT:  (5.3.63)
Report from DICKINSON 2 NORTH, Pathology West Pathology, reported by:  A/Prof ROSCOE HINDIN:

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Examination of multiple transverse sections through the parapharyngeal mass show a large, circumscribed, multilobulated tumour which is surrounded in part by a compressed fibrous connective tissue pseudocapsule.  The capsule contains residual salivary gland ducts with associated fibrosis and collections of chronic inflammatory cells.  The tumour exhibits a varied morphologic pattern with cellular areas alternating with loose, myxoid and chondromyxoid stroma.  In addition central areas of marked stromal hyalinisation are identified. The cellular areas contain sheets of myoepithelial cells withinterspersed ductal structures.  The ducts exhibit a biphasic arrangement with inner ductal cells and abluminal myoepithelial cells.  The myxoid areas contain spindled, stellate as well as plasmacytoid appearing myoepithelial cells.  The myoepithelial cells have large, vesicular nuclei with prominent nucleoli. Mild nuclear pleomorphism and occasional mitoses are noted.  Focally necrosis is observed with associated granulation tissue and fibrosis.
The tumour abuts the soft tissue plane of excision focally.  In addition, focal intravascular tumour is noted within the fibrous capsule.

COMMENT:
Atypical pleomorphic adenomas exhibit some features that raise concern about the potentialbiologic behaviour; however these features are insufficient on their own to attest malignancy.  These include intravascular tumour in small vessels in or adjacent to the capsule as well as cytologic atypia.
DIAGNOSIS
RIGHT PARAPHARYNGEAL TUMOUR: ATYPICAL PLEOMORPHIC ADENOMA.
This case was also reviewedby A/Prof I Tadesse, MONTO HOSPITAL's Hospital, COBAR who reports:
"Multiple sections show a pleomorphic adenoma with focal oncocytic changes, focal crypt formation and focal infarction (there is a history of recent FNB). There are rounded tumour extensions and fragments of tumour cells in vessels, without endothelial cover or vessel attachment, in soft tissue external to the fibrotic pseudocapsule. There is no true vascular permeation. Fragments of parotid glandare attached focally. There is no tumour at the inked superficial margin.
CONCLUSION: Pleomorphic adenoma; left parapharyngeal region."

