Episode No:  94I000800P
943000.VBB

GROSZKIEWICZ, RODERICK 
Lab No:  94I00080
N Gordon
FREMANTLE  South Australia  4128
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  25/2/1999
Sex:  F
Collected: 10/10/2012 at 14:19
Location:  Southern IML-BULAHDELAH COMMUNITY HOSPITAL
DR YANNICK ERNIE IACONO
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Liver resection post chemo - seg VII + VIII with diaphragm attached.  Seg II+III subsegments.  Gallbladder.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Patient details checked by PB
A.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of a gallbladder, 69mm in length and up to 32mm in diameter.  The wall measures up to 2mm in thickness and the mucosa is unremarkable.  The lumen contains inspissated bile.  No stones are identified within the lumen or specimen container.
Blocks:  1 - cystic duct and neck; 2 - body; 3 - fundus.
B.  Specimen labelled "Liver left lobe lesion" consists of a wedge resection of liver, 55 x 35 x 17mm, weighing 17.8g.  The capsular surfaceshows two stellate indentations.  Sectioning reveals irregular areas of subcapsular fibrosis deep to the two capsular defects.  The smaller one measures approximately 8mm in maximum dimension and the larger one 10mm.  
Blocks:  1 - representative larger area of fibrosis/scarring; 2 - representative smaller area of fibrosis/scarring; 3 - representative uninvolved liver.
C.  Specimen labelled "Segment 7 + 8" consists of a resection of liver, 155 x 125 x 50mm, weighing 341.6g.  A nodular tumour is seen distending the capsular surface and is adherent to a 21 x 20 x 7mm piece of diaphragm.  The bare area is inked green.  
On sectioning, a lobulated cream/white tumour is present deep to adherent diaphragm.  The tumour measures approximately 80 x 60 x 35mm and is located 15mm from the nearest resection margin.  Tumour focally abuts the bare area.  The liver away from tumour appears vaguely nodular.  
Blocks:  1 - tumour and diaphragm; 2 - tumour and resection margin; 3 & 4 - further representative tumour; 5 - liver away from tumour; 6 - tumour and bare area; 7 - tumour reserve block.  
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by A/Prof Z Langeland):  
A. The sections of gallbladder show mild chronic inflammation and focal cholesterolosis.
No evidence of dysplasia or malignancy is identified. 
B. The sections of liver show an area of organising scar tissue associated with chronic inflammation and pigment deposition. Scattered bile ducts are present within this area but no diagnostic evidence of malignancy is seen.
The adjacent parenchyma shows mild chronic inflammation within portal tracts and focal balloon degeneration. The changes are non-specific.
C. The sections of liver show residual, viable moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma associated with extensive tumour necrosis. The viable tumour is present focally at the periphery of the necrotic nodules and the tumour cells appear histologically viable. 
The morphological features would be consistent with metastatic colorectal carcinoma.
The liver and diaphragm appear adhered by a thick band of fibrous tissue but no direct involvement of the diaphragm by tumour is seen.
Carcinoma also extends very close to the surface of the liver.
The adjacent parenchyma shows mild patchy inflammation.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. GALLBLADDER: MILD CHRONIC INFLAMMATION
B. LIVER: ORGANISING SCAR TISSUE. NO VIABLE TUMOUR SEEN.
C. LIVER, SEGMENTS 7 and 8: ADENOCARCINOMA WITH EXTENSIVE NECROSIS.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: 
The Immunohistochemistry profile of the tumour shows strong positive staining with CEA and keratin 20, but absent staining with keratin 7, consistent with metastatic colorectal carcinoma. 

