
Episode No:  40G215853J
4022158.OJJ

KALAMARAS, KEITHA PATRICE 
Lab No:  40G21585
Ginther
QUEANBEYAN  SA  2060
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  14/4/1996
Sex:  M
Collected: 27/3/2063 at :
Location:  WEST-URANA HEALTH SERVICE
DR NICOLAS Nolan Assum
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Gallbladder cancer.  Base of gallbladder and duct.  For frozen section. Gallbladder cancer, liver resection. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder base", consists of an elongated piece of firm grey tissue 20 x 5 x 4mm.  All for frozen section. Block 1- FS 1; 2 - FS 2. 
FROZEN SECTION:  No tumour seen.  
Result to registrar by Dr K Royston 11:20am 25.1.13. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder base plus hilar lymph node", consists of a piece of unoriented liver 50 x 40 x 20mm with attached omentum 130 x 150 x 10mm.  The liver has a stapled margin 50mm in length.  The serosal surface of the liverhas an area of fibrosis and multiple adhesions.  The stapled area of the liver is inked blue, the rest of surgical margin black.  On sectioning the liver parenchyma appears unremarkable. There are areas of adhesion and fibrosis and one cystic area filled with green fluid, ? remnant of gallbladder. The hepatic bed of the gallbladder is AE in serial sections.The omentum is serially sectioned and appears unremarkable. 
Blocks 1-8 - surgical margin with areas of adhesion; 9 & 10 - representative sections from the omentum. (TO: AC: TZ/ec 1.3.63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof K Tolan):
A. The specimen comprises fragments of collagenous stroma partially covered by biliary-type glandular epithelium, consistent with origin from gallbladder. Reactive epithelial changes are noted focally.
There is a moderate chronic inflammation within the stroma. Focally, there are aggregates of multinucleated giant cells surrounding foreign body material, consistent with reaction to previous surgery/diathermy.
There is no definite evidence of dysplasia or residual invasive carcinoma.
Special stains are in progress.
B. Sections show no residual glandular dysplasia or invasive carcinoma. There are numerous multinucleated giant cells and histiocytes within the perihepatic soft tissue associated with fibrinoid material, consistent with reactive changes to previous surgery. Within the liver, there is activeinflammation within portal tracts and lobules adjacent to the surgical bed. 
Elsewhere the liver parenchyma shows mild patchy lymphocytic inflammation in the portal tracts associated with mildfibrous expansion. The increased fibrosis seen in the subcapsular regions  appears within normal limits for the site. 
There is no active portal inflammation or interface hepatitis away from the excision bed. There is no increase in stainable copper or iron.  No lymph nodes are seen.
This result was discussed with Dr Richie Otten, Surgical RMO.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Gallbladder base: No residual dysplasia or invasive carcinoma
B. Gallbladder base plus hilar lymph node: No residual dysplasia or invasive carcinoma

