EpisodeNo:  66U189693Q
667189.RYI

KNAPPER, Daniele 
Lab No:  66U18969
Muru
WATTLEGLEN    6437
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  9/10/2023
Sex:  F
Collected: 05/02/2013 at 09:21
Location:  INTENSIVE CARE UNIT SOUTH-NEWMAN HOSPITAL
DR Ashley Pablo Kabigting
Distribution:  DR JIMMY,FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Pap Ca in (L) lobe.  Strong FHx pap thyr Ca.  
Papillary cancer (1) (L) lobe of thyroid.  (2) (R) thyroid lobe.(3) Central neck dissection.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right hemithyroid" consists of a right hemithyroid weighing 11mm and measuring 35 x 20 x 20mm.  The external surface is smooth and unremarkable.  The anterior margin is inked blue and the tracheal margin black.  The specimen is serially sectioned from superior to inferior.  The cut surface is unremarkable.  AE from superior to inferior in seven blocks.
B.  Specimen labelled "Left hemithyroid" consists of a left hemithyroid witha piece of skeletal muscle attached.  The specimen weighs 10g.  The thyroid measures 40 x 20 x 20mm and the piece of attached muscle is 30 x 15 x 5mm.  The external surface of the thyroid is unremarkable.  The tracheal margin is inked black and the rest of the specimen is inked blue.  The specimen is serially sectioned from superior to inferior.  In the middle pole there is a well circumscribed firm white lesion 15 x 5 x 5mm with areas of haemorrhage.  The rest of the parenchyma is unremarkable.  The specimen is AE from superior to inferior in blocks 1 to 7, rest of skeletal muscle in block 8.
C.  Specimen labelled "Central neck" consists of a piece of fatty tissue 25 x 20 x 5mm.  Several small nodes are identified measuring from 4 to 7mm.  AE.
Blocks:  1- possible lymph nodes; 2 - rest of fatty tissue.   (OW/cc 4/7/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr R Schall): 
A.  Sections show thyroid tissue.  A single small colloid nodule is noted.  Elsewhere the follicles show mild variability in size and shape.  There is no atypia or evidence of malignancy.  
B.  Sections show thyroid tissue and some adjacent skeletal muscle.  The described pale nodule is a papillary carcinoma.  This is well circumscribed and consists mainly of papillae projecting into a cystic space.  There is minimal tumour invasion into the adjacent gland.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  The tumour extends close to the thyroid capsule but the capsule is intact and there is no extra-thyroid spread.  The tumour in the sections measures 8mmdiameter so this would meet the criteria for a microcarcinoma.  The adjacent gland is unremarkable.  Two small lymph nodes were identified adjacent to the thyroid and these are unremarkable.  
C.  Sections show fat with eightsmall lymph nodes.  No tumour is seen.  


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right hemithyroid:  No significant abnormality.  
B.  Left hemithyroid:  Papillary carcinoma, 8mm diameter.  
C.  Central neck:  No tumour (0/8). 
 

