
Episode No:  41D970730J
411970.TJA

Collingsworth, Kelsie 
Lab No:  41D97073
Tupia
BURPENGARY    4726
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  20/12/2040
Sex:  F
Collected: 22/4/2063 at :
Location:  ONCOLOGY (GYNAE)-LEONORA HOSPITAL
DR YURNU ELDON KINCAIDE
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Pap thyr Ca (R) lobe.  Frozen section (L) thyroid lobe inf pole nodule - atypical on FNA.  1. (R) lobe of thyroid.  2. Precricoid tissue.  3. Central neck dissection.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left thyroid lobe" consists of a thyroid lobe 50 x 30 x 14mm.  There is a firm nodule 10 x 9 x 9mm in the upper pole.  No other nodules are identified.  The isthmic margin is inked green and theremainder of the surface is inked black.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section; 2 - remainder of nodule; 3 to 10 - remainder of tissue.  AE.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Follicular tumour with capsular invasion. 
Phone result to Dr L Agnew by Dr L Aliment at 5.20pm on 20/2/12.
B.  Specimen labelled "Right thyroid lobe' consists of a thyroid lobe 52 x 32 x 30mm.  The tracheal surface is inked blue and the ante-tracheal surface is inked black.  The specimen is serially sliced.  There is a firm pale nodule 14 x 10 x 10mm.  Separate from the thyroid lobe there is a separate piece of tan tissue 10 x 3 x 2mm.  
Blocks:  1 to 10 - all of thyroid lobe (7 to 9 - all of nodule); 11 - separate piece of tissue.  AE.
C.  Specimen labelled "Precricoid tissue" consists of a piece of tan tissue10 x 8 x 3mm.  BAE one block.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Central neck dissection" consists of an unorientated piece of fibrofatty tissue 33 x 15 x 8mm.  There are up to five lymph nodes ranging from 6 to 10mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks:  1 - one bisected lymph node; 2 - up to four lymph nodes.  (HM/cc 23/4/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Hackmann): 
A  The 8mm (two consecutive slices) tumour within the inferior pole is a microinvasive follicular-patterned nodule with an associatedthin capsule.  The follicles are lined by enlarged cuboidal to low columnar lining follicular epithelial cells which display round to oval, slightly crowded nuclei  with variable chromatin pallor, occasional nuclear grooves and eosinophilic cytoplasm.  No intranuclear inclusions are seen.  The follicles contain hypereosinophilic colloid with some peripheral scalloping.  Focal Hurthle cell differentiation is present.  Several foci of intracapsular and two foci of transcapsular penetration are present but no lymphovascular invasion is seen.  No mitoses, trabecular architecture, necrosis or significant nuclear pleomorphism is seen.  With immunohistochemistry both the background benign follicular epithelial cells and tumour cells stain with CK19 while HBME1 highlights the tumour cells only  The surrounding parenchyma is non-nodular and shows mild to focally moderate lymphocytic thyroiditis with occasional germinal centres.
One (1) perithyroid lymph nodes shows no evidence of malignancy.  No parathyroid glands are seen.  
COMMENT:
The nodule is a minimally invasive well differentiated thyroid carcinoma.  The differential is between a minimally invasive (capsule only) follicular variant of papillary carcinoma and minimally invasive follicular carcinoma, the distinction depending on the interpretation of the nuclear features.  Despite the presence of dense colloid and peripheral scalloping,in my opinion the nuclear features both qualitatively and quantitatively fall short of definite papillary carcinoma and I favour a minimally invasive follicular carcinoma.  Immunohistochemistry is unhelpful in this distinction as boththe tumour cells and background benign follicles stain diffusely with CK19.  Lack of vascular invasion in minimally invasive follicular carcinomas portends a very good prognosis with predicted behaviour akin to a diagnosis of follicularadenoma.  .  There is focal disruption of the surgical margin due to frozen section sampling but in complete full face sections the nodule is 1mm clear with intervening thyroid parenchyma and pseudocapsule.  I will seek a second opinionfrom Prof L Onorati at MEDIC/SURGERY WARD Pathology NEWMAN HOSPITAL Hospital and a supplementary report will be issued.
B.  The 12mm (3 consecutive slices) nodule within the right lobe is a papillary carcinoma with a mixed follicular and papillary architecture.  No necrosis, sheet like or trabecular architecture is present and tumour cell mitoses are not seen.  The carcinoma is associated with some fibrosis but no investing capsule is present. Scattered associated psammomatous calcification is seen both with and beyond the confines of the tumour.  No lymphovascular invasion is identified.  The carcinoma is less than 0.1mm from the surgical margin with an intervening thin rim of compressed fibrous tissue (pseudocapsule of thyroid).  The surrounding thyroid parenchyma is non-nodular and shows mild lymphocytic thyroiditis with occasional germinal centres.  
One (1) of four (4) perithyroid lymph nodes contains a focus of subcapsular metastatic papillary carcinoma associated with psammomatous calcification.  No extranodal extension is seen.  Scattered giant cells are seen within one of the lymph nodes.  The separate piece of submitted tissue is normal thymic tissuewith preserved cortical and medullary areas.  No parathyroid glands are identified. 
C.  One (1) lymph node shows no evidence of malignancy.  There is adjacent benign thyroid parenchyma.
D.  Four (4) lymph nodes show no definite evidence of metastatic tumour.  There are two foci of psammomatous calcification within capsular lymphatic spaces of one of these lymph nodes, unassociated with tumour cells in multiple levels examined.  There is also normal thymic tissue with preserved cortical and medullary areas.  

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left hemithyroid:  
-  Minimally invasive well differentiated thyroid carcinoma, 8mm (see comment), margins clear. 
-  One (1) negative perithyroid lymph node.
-  No parathyroid glands seen.
B.  Right hemithyroid:  
-  Papillary carcinoma, 12mm (mixed follicular and papillary architecture), margins clear (see comment).
-  One (1) of four (4) perithyroid lymph nodes containing metastatic papillary carcinoma, no extranodal extension seen.
-  No parathyroid glands seen.
C.  Precricoid tissue:  
-  One (1) negative lymph node.
D.  Central neck dissection:  
-  Four (4) negative lymph nodes, one lymph node containing psammomatous calcification, normal thymic tissue
Supplementary report to follow.

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (13/5/63):
Report from Forensic MedicinePathology, COOKTOWN:
Reported by A/Prof L Yessios
Firstly I agree that the 12mm tumour in the right lobe is a definite papillary carcinoma. Definite metastatic carcinoma is present in one of four perithyroidal nodes adjacent to the right lobe.  In the central neck dissection one node containing psammoma bodies is present (in the presence of a definite papillary carcinoma in the thyroid, I would normally classify this node as being involved by carcinoma). Therefore metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma is present in 2 of 10 lymph nodes from the thyroid. 
The 8mm lesion in the left lobe is difficult to classify.  The issue in my mind is whether it is an adenoma or adenomatous nodule or a minimally invasive follicular carcinoma negative for vascular space invasion (both are almost always cured after excision alone).  Therefore in the setting of a patient with a definite 12mm papillary thyroid carcinoma in the right lobe (and 2 lymph node metastases) this distinction is essentially arbitrary and certainly of no clinical consequence.
Based on the paraffin slides I would have classified the 8mm lesion as an adenomatous nodule.  However in the frozen section side itself there is an area of capsular irregularity which at the time of frozen I would probably have classified as full thickness invasion.  On this basis I think it is best to classify the 8mm lesion as a minimally invasive follicular carcinoma negative for vascular space invasion.
SUMMARY: 
Thyroid: Papillary carcinoma 12mm.  Minimally invasive follicular carcinoma negative for vascular space invasion 8mm. Metastatic papillary carcinoma in 2 of 10 lymph nodes.

