Episode No:  62V571698U
628571.QYV

Scheuren, Buford 
Lab No:  62V57169
Paseo Robles
TANUNDA    4102
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/4/2010
Sex:  M
Collected: 21/02/2013 at 09:02
Location:  RHW-MUDGEE HEALTH SERVICE
DR FLYNN CLINTON BOKOR
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Thyroid nodule" consists of a thyroid 75 x 40 x 15mm.  The tracheal surface is inked blue and the remainder is inked black.  There is a 10 x 8 x 7mm pale circumscribed nodule in the mid right lobe.  No other nodules are seen.
Blocks:  1 to 7 - all of right lobe from superior to inferior; 8 & 9 - isthmus; 10 to 17 - left lobe.  AE.
B.  Specimen labelled "Central neck node" consists of three fragments of fibrofatty tissue 34 x 25x 7mm in aggregate.  No lymph nodes are identified.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - all of tissue.   (VX/cc 23/4/63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Q Neidig): 
The 8mm nodule in the right mid portion of the right hemithyroid is a papillary carcinoma which is 0.5mm clear of the surgical margin. The carcinoma show mixed oncocytic and tall cell features with a predominantly follicular or cord like architecture and focal papillary growth.  Six (6) of seven (7) central neck lymph nodes show foci of metastatic papillary carcinoma.  A synoptic report for thyroid carcinoma follows.

Synoptic Report for Thyroid Carcinoma

Specimen Type: Total thyroidectomy plus central neck lymph nodes
Histologic Type: Papillary carcinoma:  Mixed tall cell (approximately 30%) and oncocytic features.
Tumour Site: Mid right lobe.
Tumour description: 
Predominantly follicular with cord like and focal papillary architecture
Solid/insular/trabecular architecture: Not seen.
Mitotic rate per 1/10 hpf:
Coagulative Necrosis: Absent
Tumour Size:  Greatest dimension: 8mm (microscopic measurement and 2 consecutive slices)
Tumour Margin:Infiltrative, unencapsulated
Vascular Invasion:  Not seen.  
Scattered foci of psammomatous calcification are present just beyond the advancing edge of the tumour but no definite lymphovascular invasion is seen.
Extrathyroidal Extension:  Not seen.
Tumour is completely confined to the thyroid parenchyma.
Surgical Excision Margin:  Local excision is 0.4mm clear
The carcinoma is separated from the surgical resection margin by uninvolved thyroid parenchyma and a narrow rim of pseudocapsule.
Lymph Nodes:  Six  (6) of seven (7) small central neck lymph nodes contain metastatic papillary carcinoma.  No other perithyroid lymph nodes are identified.
Extranodal spread:  Nil definite: 
The capsule of one of the lymph nodes (Block B1) is mildly expanded by carcinoma associated with psammomatous calcification but no definite extranodal extension is seen.
Location of involved nodes:  "Central neck nodes"
Other:  N/A
Thyroid Away from Tumour/Other pathology:
Unremarkable apart from focal Hurthle cell change.
There is a focus of follicular epithelial cells within striatedmuscle attached to the left hemithyroid.  The intramuscular follicles have bland cell morphology and are dissimilar to the tumour cells and are strongly favoured torepresent benign ectopic thyoid tissue (Block A15).
Parathyroid tissue:  Present
Number of deposits of parathyroid tissue present: 2
Size of parathyroid tissue(s): 0.3mm and 0.4mm
Site of parathyroid tissue(s): Left
Histological appearance of parathyroid tissue:  Normal
COMMENT
Although the tumour is by definition a papillary microcarcinoma (<10mm) there is focal tall cell morphology, a feature which may be associated with more aggressive behaviour.
Selected slides of tumour morphology and striated muscled containing thyroid tissue shown to A/Prof Q Littich..





