
Episode No:  85D329807C
851329.VBS
Emerson
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
SCC right tongue.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Inferior margin" consists of a piece of red solid tissue 4 x 2 x 2mm, ?bearing mucosa.  AE 1 block for frozen section.
B.  Specimen labelled "Deep margin" consists of a piece of red solid tissue.  No obvious mucosa.  AE 1 block for frozen section.  Note by HM/ESA 13:50pm, 25th of September 2013.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A + B no evidence of malignancy.
Result toDr Zarate/Oswaldo by Dr Chapell at 2:15pm on the 25th of September 2013.
Note by Brooks:  RangOT a number of times.
Rang MILTON PAPETTI accepted result.
Rang Rubye SCHLOTTMANN accepted result.
C.  Specimen labelled "Inferior margin tumour" consists of an irregularly shaped and unorientated piece of solid tissue 45 x 13 (maximum width) x 4mm.  There appears to be mucosa over one surface measuring 27 x 12mm.  The specimen is tapered towards one end.  Black towards the convexity andblue on the other side.  Specimen is serially sliced and sequentially blocked from the tapered end towards the opposite end in five blocks.  AE.  Please see the diagram.
D.  Specimen labelled "Right lateral tongue stitchanterior" consists of a piece of tongue tissue bearing mucosa measuring 46 x 32 x 20mm.  There is a stitch marking anterior.  There is an ulcerated tumour, centred on the lateral  tongue, 28 x 15 x 11mm.  The tumour has a pale, firm cut surface.  The tumour is 11mm from anterior, 1mm from inferolateral, 4mm from deep, 9mm from medial and 13mm from posterior margins.  The margins are inked in three colours:  Inferolateral red, deep black and medial blue.  Specimen is serially sliced and sequentially blocked.  The anterior and posterior slices are further LS.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - LS anterior margin; 3 to 13 - TS with inferolateral and medial paired(5 & 6 are paired; 7 & 8 are paired, 9 & 10 are paired; 11 & 12 are paired) 14 to 17 - posterior margin.  AE.  Please see thediagram.  Block 4 is reserved block.
E.  Specimen labelled "Level 1 right neckdissection" consists of specimen of submandibular gland (45 x 25 x 20mm) and attached soft tissue, 40 x 10 x 7mm.  A separate lymph node 12 x 6 x 6mm is also received.  The cut surface of the submandibular gland is unremarkable, within the soft tissue attached to the submandibular gland there is ?lymph node 7mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks:  1 - the separate lymph node bisected; 2 - representative submandibular gland; 3 - ?bisected lymph node.
F.  Specimen labelled "Level 2 right neck dissection" consists of a solid nodule 30 x 20 x 15mm with attached fibrofatty tissue 40 x 20 x 6mm.  The nodule has an indurated pale cut surface with focal area of ?necrosis.  Two likely lymph nodes are identified within the attached soft tissue.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representatives the largest nodule; 3 - ?lymph nodes.
G.  Specimen labelled "Level 3 + 4 right neck dissections" consists of an unorientated and rugged piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 95 x 25 x 10mm.  Several lymph nodes are identified.  The largest is 18mm in maximum dimension (Block 1).
Blocks:  1 - ?bisected lymph node; 2 - lymph nodes are seen; 3 -lymph nodes are seen; 4 - bisected lymph node.  (TO: GF; XH/rt 28.11.63)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr F Brucker):
A & B.  Frozen sections of the specimens examined at the time intraoperative consultation show minor salivary gland tissue of mucinous type (specimen A) and a fragment of fibroadipose tissue and striated muscle (specimen B), the latter showing foci of atrophy.  No squamous epithelium is present.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 
C.  The specimen has been entirely blocked and examined.  Sections show non-keratinised stratified squamous mucosa overlying lobulated mucinous salivary gland tissue.  There is lymphocytic exocytosis, superficial stromal chronic inflammation and mild periductal chronic inflammation within the salivary gland.  There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.
D.  The specimen has been entirely blocked and examined. Sections show a ulcerated, moderate to poorly differentiated,focally keratinising, squamous cell carcinoma.  The carcinoma, which arises from the lateral border of the tongue, has infiltrativeprofile and measures up to 9mm in maximum thickness.  The tumour invades the striated muscle of the tongue with focal perineural invasion, both within the confines of the tumour, and at its advancing edge.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  
Poorly differentiated invasive tumour is present less than 0.1mm from the inked inferolateral mucosal margin (D6); there is disruption of the margin in this area limiting assessment, however, completeness of excision is doubtful.  Invasive tumour with an infiltrative pattern also extends to within 0.2mm of the inferolateral soft tissue margin (D6).  Invasive tumour is 1.8mm clear of the deep margin, 6mm clear of the anterior and posterior margins and 8.5mm clear of the medial margin
There is also non-contiguous low grade epithelial dysplasia about 5mm from the medial mucosal margin and contiguous moderate squamous dysplasia present at the inferolateral mucosal margin (D7).  
E.  Two (2) lymph nodes show reactive changes only (0/2).  The submandibular gland is unremarkable.  
F.  One (1) of two (2) lymph nodes contains a deposit of metastatic keratinising squamous cell carcinoma (1/2).  The deposit measures at least 10mm in dimension with associated necrosis and calcification.  No definite extranodal spread is seen.  
G.  Seven (7) lymph nodes show reactive changes only (0/7). 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Inferior margin:  
-  Minor salivary gland tissue; no evidence of malignancy.  
B.  Deep margin:  
-Fibroadipose tissue and striated muscle; no evidence of malignancy.  
C.  Inferior margin tumour:  
-  Squamous mucosa with salivary gland tissue; no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.  
D.  Right lateral tongue, stitch anterior (excision):  
-  Moderate to poorlydifferentiated, focally keratinising squamous cell carcinoma; 8mm thick,doubtful inferolateral margin (see text); deep margin 1.8mm from deep margin; other margins >5mm clear; focal perineural invasion; low to moderate squamous dysplasia.  
E.  Right level I neck dissection :  
-  Two (2) negative lymph nodes (0/2).
F.  Right level 2 neck dissection 
-  One (1) of two (2) lymph nodes containing  metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (1/2).
G.   Right level 3 & 4 neck dissection:  
-  Seven negative lymph nodes (0/7).  

