Episode No:  55P755962Y
555755.YQH

SHIMO, Warrigal Roderick 
Lab No:  55P75596
North Carriage
CASINO  ACT  1441
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  23/11/1998
Sex:  M
Collected: 28/08/2013 at 15:25
Location:  DICKINSON 3 NORTH-MERCY CARE HOSPITAL - YOUNG
DR Avery Brant KAMIYA
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
HCC of segment VII.  Previous SCC of left oropharynx - had resection and radiotherapy.
Additional information obtained:  Ex- IVDU, Hepatitis C.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Segment seven liver tumour", consists of a wedge of liver which measures 45mm (medial to lateral) x 50mm (anterior to posterior) x 80mm (superior to inferior). The specimen includes a region of bare area which measures 60 x 30mm.  Surgical margin inked black, bare area margin inked blue. On sectioning there is a large well circumscribed mass which measures50mm (medial to lateral) x 50mm (anterior to posterior) x 45mm (superficial to deep).  The tumour has a green variegated cut surface with areas of haemorrhage and cream discolouration.  These areas of cream discolouration constitute less than 20% of the total tumour volume.  The tumour appears to abut the liver capsule and the bare area margin.  The adjacent liver parenchyma has a micronodular appearance, each nodule measures approximately 2-3mm. 
Blocks: 1-liver away from tumour; 2- representative tumour; 3&4 - tumour with bare area margin; 5 and 6 - tumour with surgical margin; 7 - tumour with liver capsule; 8 to 10 - representative tumour.
B.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder", consists of a gallbladder received unopened which measures 80 x 45 x 35mm.  A cystic duct lymph node is identified which measures 8mm.  The serosal surface is unremarkable. The lumen of the gallbladder is filled with several gallstones ranging from <1 to 10mm.  The mucosa is green and velvety.  Maximum wall thickness is 2mm.  
Blocks: 1 - cystic duct and cystic duct lymph node; 2 - 2TS gallbladder body; 3 - 2LS gallbladder fundus.
C.  Specimen labelled "Gastrocutaneous fistula ", consists of a wedge of tissue which measures 20 x 15 x 5mm.  At one tip there appears to be a skin surface which measures 4 x 2mm.  Staple margin inked black, radial margin inked blue. Serially sectioned and AE 2blocks.
(WG/vo 10.1.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr O Houpt): 
A.  Sections show hepatocellular carcinoma, size approximately 50mm, with predominantly acinar and trabecular architecture and some pseudoglandular formation.  The HepPar1 stain is positive throughout the tumour.  No lymphovascular space invasion is seen.  The tumour abuts but does not penetrate the liver capsule and comes to within 5mm of the surgical resection margin.  
The surrounding liver shows predominantly macronodular cirrhosis with moderate steatosis.  No alpha-1-antitrypsin globules, copper associated protein, iron or hepatitis B surface antigen is identified.  Theappearances are consistent with the known history of Hepatitis C infection.  
B.  Sections of the gallbladder show mild thickening of the wall due to muscle hypertrophy,fibrosis and chronic inflammation.  Focal Rokitansky Aschoff sinus formation is present.  The appearances are consistent with chronic cholecystitis.  The cystic duct lymph node shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.  
C.  Sections show gastric acid secreting mucosa with surrounding fibrosis consistent with a fistula.  There is a moderate active chronic inflammatorycell infiltrate within the lamina propria.  Focal intestinal metaplasia is present.  No Helicobacter are seen.  There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Segment seven liver:  
-  Hepatocellular carcinoma, excision appears complete. 
-  Cirrhosis consistent with Hepatitis C infection.  
B.  Gallbladder: 
-  Chronic cholecystitis.
-  Cholelithiasis.
C.  Gastrocutaneous fistula:  Moderate active chronic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia

