
Episode No:  12C374013F
1203740.DJF

MULDREW, Jarred BERENICE 
Lab No:  12C37401
Bingo Lake
BROOME  SA  2671
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  5/6/1995
Sex:  F
Collected: 08/05/2013 at 22:31
Location:  MEDIC/SURGERY WARD - BARHAM KOONDROOK SOLDIERS MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
DR Jewel MCKINLEY Bried
Distribution:   FILE-COPY

CLINICAL:
Interval debulking of ovarian cancer.  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy.  Ovarian cancer.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix and rectum", consists of a uterus with a large nodular mass attached and a piece of rectum attached. The specimen weighs in total 183g. The uterus measures 60 x 40 x 30mm.  The serosal surface is totally covered by fibrous adhesions. The cervix measures 35 x 20mm. The mucosal surface is shiny and smooth.  In the posterior aspect ofthe uterus and at the level of the lower segment there is a large cystic and solid mass attached with overlying intestinal mucosa.  The mass measures 50 x 40 x 40mm.  The segment of rectum overlying the mass is 60mm in length.  On section, the tumour has a large central necrotic area.  The endometrium is atrophic and measures less than 1mm in thickness. The myometrium is 10mm in thickness.  One small fibroid is identified 5mm in diameter. 
Blocks 1-3 - 1 full LS of anterior body and cervix; 4 - anterior endomyometrium with fibroid; 5-8 - 1 full LS of posterior body and cervix; 9 - posterior endomyometrium with serosal adhesions; 10 & 11- representative sections of tumorous mass with overlying rectal mucosa.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Right tube and ovary", consists of a large solid and cystic mass with attached fallopian tube and fimbria. The fallopian tube and fimbria measure 50 x 5 x 5mm.  The tumorous mass measures 110 x 80 x 50mm.  
Block 1 - tumour with a piece of fallopian tube; 2 - 2LS fallopian tube; 3-6 - representative tumour; 4 - reserve block.
C.  Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary", consists of a fallopian tube 50mm in length with a dilated area (up to 25mm in maximum diameter) and one large solid and cystic tumorous mass 120 x 100 x 60mm. The external surface of the tumorous mass is covered by papillary excrescences in more than 50% of the tissue.  On section, the cut surface is variegated with necrotic, cystic, haemorrhagic and solid areas.  
Block 1 - 2LS of fimbria with tumour; 2-6 - representative sections of the tumour.
D.  Specimen labelled "Right side wall nodule", consists of a piece of fibrous tissue with tumoral deposit. The tissue measures 25 x 25 x 10mm.  Representative sections in 1 block.
E.  Specimen labelled "Right paracolic gutter", consists of a piece of peritoneum 60 x 60 x 5mm with small tumour deposit 2-5mm. Representative sections in 2 blocks.
F.  Specimen labelled "Bladder peritoneum", consists of a nodular piece of tissue 20 x 10 x 10mm.  AE 2 blocks. 
G.  Specimen labelled "Abdominal wall nodule", consists of a piece of tumour 30 x 30 x 20mm. Representative sections in 1 block. 
H.  Specimen labelled "Donuts", consists of two donuts of intestine 10 x 5 x 5mm and 14 x 5 x 5mm.  Block 1 & 2 - one donut each. 
I.   Specimen labelled "Right external iliac node", consists of one lymph node 10mm in maximum diameter. AE 1 block. 
J.  Specimen labelled "Anterior abdominal wall nodule", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue with tumorous deposit measuring 50 x 40 x 20mm.  Representative sections in 1 block.
K.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of an omental cake 140 x 120 x 30mm.  On sectioning the omentum is totally replaced by tumour.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.   (TO: RF: UY/ec 12.7.63) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr E Hruby) 
A. Thesections show poorly differentiated tumour with features of endometrioid and serous carcinoma, in the fundus and body of the uterus, mainly in the outer myometrial wall and serosa.The tumour shows areas with papillary architecture, solid sheets and gland formation.  The tumour shows areas of fibrosis, cystic change and necrosis (slide A11).  Small calcifications are found throughout the tumour.  Some of the cells show pleomorphic features and abundant cytoplasm consistent with chemotherapy effect.  The tumour does not involve the cervix. It invades into the muscularis propria of the rectum but not the mucosa or submucosa.  However, tumour cells are found within dilated thin walled lymphovascular channels extending into the submucosa (slide A11).
Adenomyosis and an intramural leiomyoma are noted. 
The endometrium shows cystic atrophy.
B. The sections show poorly differentiated carcinoma involving and expandingthe ovary.  The tumour breaches the capsular surface and spreads into adjacent tissue including wall of fallopian tube.  Lymphovascular invasion is present. The tumour shows different types of differentiationincluding a spindle cell / sarcomatous component with areas resembling skeletal muscle (slides B1, B5, B6), showing expression of desmin antigen by the immunoperoxidase method.  Myogenin, P63, pankeratin (AE1/3) and myoglobin antigens are expressed in some of these cells.  Cytokeratin 5/6 antigen is expressed in occasional cells.  Large areas of necrosis are present.  No dysplasia is seen in the fallopian tube epithelium.
C. The sections show poorly differentiated carcinoma involving the fallopian tube and ovary, extending into the lumen of the tube.  Lymphovascular invasion is present. Some areas of necrosis are seen but there is a large amount of viable tumour.
D-G. The sections show nodules of tumour inthe fibrofatty tissue.
H.  No malignancy is seen in the sections of intestinal tissue.
I. The sections show a lymph node with areas of sclerosis and calcification.  No viable tumour cells are found.
J,K. The sections show fibrofatty tissue with extensive deposits of tumour.
The slides have also been shown to Dr ALISE MASTRIANO.

CONCLUSION
A-K. Poorly differentiated carcinoma with features of endometrioid and serous carcinoma and sarcomatous elements, involving uterus, ovaries, fallopian tubes, rectum, abdominal wall and pelvic peritoneal tissue.

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (30.10.2063)
Immunoperoxidase stains for MMRD were requested by the clinicians.
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Strong antigen expression is seen in the stromal and epithelial components of the tumour.
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

