
Episode No:  36N150146V
3651501.KQV

Janski, Towanda 
Lab No:  36N15014,36N15014
Forest Hall
FRANKSTON  Northern Territory  5451
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  7/11/1990
Sex:  F
Collected: Unknown at :
Location:  Laverty - AYR HOSPITAL
DR SYLVIA MARLYS Frutoz
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (6.8.63):


CLINICAL:
Adenocarcinoma on para-aortic lymph node biopsy, right adnexal mass, elevated Ca-125.  US right ovarian mass.  History Ashkenazi Jewish, no family history of breast/ovarian Ca.Laparotomy today.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Rt tube and ovary" consists of a fallopian tube 60mm in length and 5mm in maximal external diameter with an ovary 50 x 40 x 25mm.  The surfaceis smooth but nodular.  The cut surface shows lobulated cream tissue.  
Blocks:  1 - frozen section one; 2- frozen section two; 3 to 6 - further representative ovarian mass; 7 - fimbrial end of tube; 8 - further representative tube.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Poorly differentiated carcinoma (probably serous; but await paraffins).
Phone result to Dr Valentine (anaesthetist) by Dr H Oler/D Trunnell at 12.50 on 27.05.13.
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, left tube and ovary" consists of a uterus with attached cervix, left fallopian tube and ovary weighing 51g in total.  The uterus measures 60 x 40 x 20mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 25 x 15mm and appears unremarkable.  On sectioning the endometrium is 1mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium 14mm in maximal thickness.  The myometrium contains several fibroids up to 12mm in maximum dimension.  The left tube measures 45mm in length with a maximal external diameter of 6mm.  The left ovary measures 18 x 15 x 7mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.  
Blocks:  1 to 3 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix; 4 to 6 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix; 7 - representative left tube; 8 - representative left ovary.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Pre-caval node" consists of one large node with some small amounts of fat attached measuring 80 x 55 x 50mm.  The node is entirely replaced with necrotic and cream tissue.  Representative sections in 4 blocks.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Right external iliac node" consists of multiple pieces of fatty tissue from 10 to 35mm in maximum dimension.  Multiple lymph nodes identified from 2 to 30mm.  
Blocks:  1- lymph nodes; 2 & 3 - one lymph node serially sectioned.  
E.  Specimen labelled "Left external iliac" consists of two pieces of fatty tissue 15 and 30mm in maximum dimension.  Multiple lymph nodesare identified from 5 to 25mm. 
Blocks;  1- lymph nodes; 2- one lymph node bisected all embedded.  
F.  Specimen labelled "Right obturator node" consists of a fragmented piece of fatty tissue 50mm in maximum dimension.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified from 2 to 25mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks:  1- lymph nodes; 2- one large lymph node bisected all embedded.  
G.  Specimen labelled "Para-aortic node" consists of a piece of tan tissue 18mm.  BAE 1 block.
H.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a pieceof omental tissue 320 x 120 x 15mm in maximum dimension.  No definite tumour deposits are identified.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.  (TO:  IB:  VH/mm 30.7.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr H Amin):
A.  Sections of the ovary show involvement by a poorly differentiated carcinoma most consistent with poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  The tumour consists mainly of trabeculae of cells with large, pleomorphic nuclei and a variable amount of eosinophilic or amphophilic cytoplasm.  Some scattered tumour cells have very large, highly atypical nuclei.  Mitoses are frequent.  Part of the tumour has a prominent associated infiltrate of lymphocytes and plasma cells.  There is some fibrofat adherent to the outer surface of the ovary and tumour extends into some of this tissue.  There is gland formation identified focally within the trabeculae of tumour cells and there is some patchy tumour necrosis.  No tumour is identified on the surface of the ovary.  
There are aggregates of rather monotonous small lymphocytes seen within fibrous tissue and fat adjacent to the ovary and tumour, consistent with soft tissue involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma.  Sections of the fallopian tube are unremarkable. 
B.  Sections of thecervix are unremarkable.  Sections of the endometrium show that this is thin and inactive.  Small leiomyomas are noted in the myometrium.  The myometrium is otherwise unremarkable.  Sections of the ovary and fallopian tube are unremarkable.  A few aggregates of small lymphocytes are noted in para-ovarian soft tissue, consistent with involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma.  
C.  Sections show a lymph node which is enlarged and almost completely replaced bymetastatic serous carcinoma.  The tumour has slit-like glands and also some papillary structures.  The node also shows involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma. 
D.  Sections show four lymph nodes with involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma.  No epithelial tumour is seen. 
E.  Sections show three lymph nodes with involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma.  No epithelial tumour is seen. 
F.  Sections show six lymph nodes.  No epithelial tumour is seen. The nodes are involved by small lymphocytic lymphoma.
G.  Sections show one lymph node with involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma.  No epithelial tumour is seen.  
H.   Sections show fat withscattered small aggregates of small lymphocytes consistent with involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma.  No epithelial tumour is seen.  (ec) 
 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.   Right ovary and tube:
1.    Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma of ovary.
2.    Soft tissue involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma.  
B.   Uterus, left tube and ovary:
1.    Involvement of para-ovarian soft tissue by small lymphocytic lymphoma. 
2.    Uterine leiomyomas. 
C.   Precaval node:
1.    Metastatic serous carcinoma. 
2.    Small lymphocytic lymphoma. 
D.   Right external iliac nodes:  No epithelial tumour (0/4).  Involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma.  
E.   Left external iliac:  No epithelial tumour (0/3).   Involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma. 
F.   Right obturator nodes:  No epithelial tumour (0/6).   Involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma.
G.  Para-aortic node:  No epithelial tumour (0/1).  Involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma.
H.  Omentum:No epithelial tumour.  Foci of involvement by small lymphocytic lymphoma.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (6.8.63):
F.  Immunostains have been performed for typing of the lymphoma.
CD20:   Positive.
CD5:   B cells negative (performed on two different blocks).
CD23:   Positive.
CD10:   Negative.
Bcl-6:   Negative.
Cyclin D1:   Negative.
CD 3:   Stains small T cells.
The features are of a low grade B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma.  Chronic lymphocytic leulaemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma is favoured but the negative CD 5 staining is unusual.  Mantle cell lymphoma is excluded.  Follicular lymphoma is also unlikely.
ADDITIONAL REPORT (22/10/63):

Immunoperoxidase stains for MSI proteins (Block:  A6)
	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

