
 9925442.VOA
Fieldson, CANDACE X
99G54428

Last edited : 8/8/2063		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Recurrent abscess left axilla - recent biopsy showed SCC.  Primary unknown.  Left axillary dissection with large skin ellipse around draining sinuses.  COPD, SCC.
Left axilla - skin ellipse level I (and part of 2).  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Left axillary dissection" consists of an unorientated ellipse of skin which measures 170 x 60mm with attached subcutaneous tissue measuring 170 x 80mm to a depth of 110mm.  The epidermal surface contains a sinus which appears to be filled with pus.  There are additionally three nodules on the epidermal surface measuring 15 to 20mm, one of which appears to be ulcerated.  On sectioning the subcutaneous tissue there is a large cream necrotic mass whichmeasures 100 x 90 x 65mm which appears to abut the deep margin.  There is a separate small cystic space at one end of the skin ellipse which measures 50 x 40mm.  It is uniloculated and filled with soft cream necrotic appearing material.The nodules visible on the epidermal surface also have underlying cystic spaces.  The specimen is unorientated.  Two possible lymph nodes identified in the surrounding fat.  
Blocks:  1- short axis margin one; 2 & 3 - composite blocks short axis margin two; 4 & 5 - composite blocks lateral skin margin one; 6 - lateral skin margin two; 7&8 - representative deep margin; 9&10 - representative deep lateral margin one; 11&12 - representative deep lateral margin two; 13 - deep lateral margin two reserved block; 14 - section of cyst, 15- lymph nodes
(CA/mm 8.7.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr X Bawany):  
Sections show a moderately differentiated non-keratinising squamous cell carcinoma with surface ulceration.  Focal areas of necrosis and abscess are present at the centre of tumour.  Several small tumour satellites are also present at the periphery of main tumour mass.  The resection margins are clear of tumour.  The carcinoma is well clear of the lateral skin margins.  The carcinoma is separated from the deep soft tissue surgical resection margin by a narrow pseudocapsule or soft tissue plane.  There is no evidence of lymphovascular or perineural invasion.  One (1) lymph node is identified.  The lymph node is unremarkable.
DIAGNOSIS:
Left axillary dissection - Squamous cell carcinoma.

