
Episode No:  08U0061646
087006.EQL

Jove, Antonia 
Lab No:  08U00616,08U00616
Navaho
GOONDIWINDI  NT  4806
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  1/4/2014
Sex:  F
Collected: 13/03/2014 at 19:00
Location:  MACKSVILLE DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR NGARRINDJERI Lenci
Distribution:  DR ODIS, DR Rufus,  FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
G II (2) endometrioid adenoca. MSI testing please.
MACROSCOPIC:  
A. 'UTERUS, BILATERAL TUBES + OVARIES'. A uterus with attached bilateral tubes, ovaries and cervix weighing a total of 184g. The uterus measures 70mm from medial to lateral, 95mm from fundus to cervix, and 45mm from anterior to posterior. The right fallopian tube measures 90mm in length and 7mm in maximal external diameter and the right ovary measures 35x20x15mm. The left fallopian tube measures 75mm in length and 8mm in maximal external diameter and the left ovary measures 35x20x13mm. The uterus has been opened laterally. The serosal surface is unremarkable. 
(1 one LS and one TS fallopian tube; 2 two TS left ovary; 3 one LS one TS right fallopian tube; 4 two TS right ovary; 5-8 anterior cervix to fundus [notches inferior]; 9 and 10 further anterior endometrium myometrium; 11-15 posterior cervix to fundus [notches inferior]; 16 and 17 further posterior endometrium myometrium; 18 right parametrial tissue; 19 left parametrial tissue). RS (M-19) 
Further: 20 R cornual endometrium;21, 22 left anterior towards L cornu; 23 L cornual endometrium; LV
Further: 24 R ovary; 25,26 R cornu, contiguous, sagittal superior and more inferior;
27, 28 transverse sections mid R side to show parametrial area; 29, 30 leftcornu, contiguous, sagittal superior and more inferior; 31 adjacent to 30; 32,33 further left ovary; LV
 
B. 'OMENTAL BIOPSY'. A piece of fatty tissue 25x25x5mm. No suspicious notable tumours are identified on inspection or sectioning. AE (M-1/SW/cy)
MICROSCOPIC:  
A. 'Uterus, bilateral tubes + ovaries'
There is an endometrioid adenocarinoma involving anterior and posterior uterine body. In most areas of the tumour there is no myoinvasionhowever there is invasion into the myometrium in left cornu sections. This is associated with adenomyosis in this area and adenocarcinoma partly colonises adenomyosis. However the deeper parts of the tumour have rounded sheets of tumour without stroma and this is considered invasive rather than adenomyosis. Deep to this there is more easily recognised invasion with angulated small glands and single tumour cells with a desmoplastic stromal reaction. 
ENDOMETRIAL CARCINOMA:
Tumour site: anterior and posterior body, with myoinvasion in left cornu area
Histologic Tumour type:  Endometrioid adenocarcinoma
Histologic Grade:  FIGO grade 2
Myometrial invasion:  PRESENT, invasion into outer half of myometrium
    Depth of myometrial invasion:  10 mm (A30)
    Myometrial thickness:  13 mm
    % of myometrium invaded: 75 %
Lymphovascular invasion:  Suspicious of focal lymphovascular invasion
Involvement of cervix:  
   No invasion of cervical stroma. 
   Surface mucosal involvement is present in upper endocervix sections (A5)
Uterine peritoneal surface involvement:  
    Not involved.  Occasional detached tumour fragments over the peritoneal surface may be artefactual related to specimen handling. 
Excision margins:
A section of what appears to be non-invasion tumour in ?adenomyosis is present in an area of the  R parametrial sections, relationship to margin here uncertain. Invasive carcinoma is not demonstated near these margins or other parametrial sections.
Other tissues/non-tumour uterus: 
   Adjacent endometrium: unremarkable
   Moderate adenomyosis present, mainly in cornual areas
Cervix:
   Ectocerix normal
   Endocervix distal to surface involvement by tumour is normal
Right fallopian tube: 
    Luminal carcinoma fragments present, detached
    Small surface peritoneal deposit of tumour (A3)
Right ovary:
    Negative for tumour
    Some surface thin fibrous adhesions present
Left fallopian tube: 
    Luminal carcinoma fragments present
Left ovary: 
    Focal surface peritoneal deposit of endometrioid adenocarcinoma 1 mm diameter, with adjacent granulation tissue (A2), similar appearance to endometrial tumour.
Lymph nodes:  
  No lymph nodes in parametrial sections or separately received
B. Omentum: 
    Patchy reactive mesothelial hyperplasia.
    Negative for tumour.
Immunostains for DNA MismatchRepair (MMR) proteins, (block: A23):
MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6:  Normal staining (intact expression)
Comment: Intact expression of all four proteins indicates that MMR enzymes tested are intact.
Peritoneal washings (see report 08U00616): Positive for tumour cells.
FIGO Stage (FIGO 2008):
IIIA (3A) (tumour involves adnexae)
Lymph node stage not assessable
DIAGNOSIS:
A. 'Uterus, bilateral tubes + ovaries' -
- endometrioid adenocarcinoma of endometrium;
- FIGO grade 2; 
- invasion into outer half of myometrium (10 mm invasion of 13 mm myometrium), left cornu, adjacent to area of adenomyosis;
- suspicious of focal lymphovascular invasion;
- excision margins appear negative
- small surface peritoneal deposit of tumour, right fallopian tube
- detached luminal carcinoma fragments present, right and left tubes
- left ovarian surface deposit of carcinoma PRESENT
- Intact expression of MMRP by Immunostains
- peritoneal washings positive for tumour cells (see separate report)
B. Omentum biopsy -
 - negative for tumour.
22/5/64, B Castanon.  
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (1) ATTACHED
- - - -
Supplementary report: (1)
The above case was discussed at the gynaecology oncology meeting 5/6/64. To clarify the comment on excision margins, the R parametrial sections include a small detacehd piece of myometrium with adenomyosis, with the adenomyosis involved by non-invasive endometrial carcinoma. This piece is detached and there are no other similar areas in further sections taken from the right side parametrium and right cornu and the piece of tissue is probably carried over from a more central area of adenomyosis, and as reported above the uterine parametrial and other soft tissue margins are negative for tumour.
5/6/64, B Corley.  

