
 543675.NTV
HADDON, Rodolfo
54I67557

Last edited : 28/7/2064		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Bile duct.  Cholangiocarcinoma or abscess.  Left hemi hepatectomy.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Bile duct" consists of a piece of soft red tissue measuring 15 x 5 x 2mm.   AE for frozen section. 
Blocks: 1 - frozen section.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Acutely inflamed granulation tissue, oedema + reactive fibroblastic proliferation.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 
Results to Dr Odell by Dr P Doran and A/Prof P Telega on 21/5/14 at 1:56pm.
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Liver resection, bile duct marked with suture" consists of a segment of liver measuring 200 x 120 x 70mm.   The bile duct is identified and is marked with a suture.  It has a maximum diameter of 4mm and is 5mm in length.  On the serosal surface there are multiple nodules measuring from 3 to 10mm.  The bile duct is dilated and appears patent.   The specimen is serially sectioned. There are multiple yellow nodules throughout the hepatic parenchyma measuring from 5mm to 20mm.  The largest yellow nodules show central cavitation filled with pus.  The vessels have a thick wall and large dilated vessels and filled with thrombi.  The closest nodule to the surgical margin is 25mm.  Representative sections.
Blocks: 1 - TS bile duct surgical margin; 2 - TS next to surgical margin of bile duct; 3 - LS of bile duct; 4 & 5 - normal looking liver close to surgical margin; 6 to 20 - representative sections ofyellow nodular masses and prominent vessels.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Hilar lymph node" consists of two enlarged lymph nodes measuring 20 and 30mm in maximum diameter.  On sectioning the lymph nodesare unremarkable. 
Blocks: 1 to 4 - one lymph node; 5 & 6 - one lymph node.   (EK/ta 24/7/64) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr P Wilfahrt):
A & B.  Sections of liver show multiple abscesses involving the entire liver parenchyma.  Some of the abscesses are filled pus surrounded by large number of inflammatory cells.  The special stain (DPAS) for fungal organisms is negative.  The liver tissue away from the abscesses show mild steatosis.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Two (2) lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes show reactive changes.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A & B.  Liver - Multiple abscesses.
C.  Hilar lymph node - No evidence of malignancy.

