
Episode No:  60F949459W
6029494.PYW

Pesicka, JUSTINE 
Lab No:  60F94945
Lumb Brook
AYR  TAS  5117
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  2/11/2010
Sex:  F
Collected: 15/05/2014 at 08:33
Location:  NSW Health-DAVID BERRY HOSPITAL
DR Arnulfo SALINA Benyard
Distribution:  
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (14.8.64):


CLINICAL:
2 months of progressive decreasing visual acuity.  18 months hypocortisolaemia   Suprasellar lesion.  Pituitary tumour.  Suprasellar lesion.  Craniotomy.  Suprasellar tumour causing progressive deterioration in vision.  Pituitary tumour.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Suprasellar tumour", consists of a piece of soft haemorrhagic tissue 17 x 3 x 3mm.  One smear made for H & E staining and half of specimen embedded for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section;2 - remainder of tissue.  AE.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Craniopharyngioma. 
Phone results to Dr Leeanne Desjardiws by Dr Jude ALLUM and Dr Gustavo Broody at 12:54pm on 15/5/14.
B.  Specimen labelled "Suprasellar lesion", consists of three piece of irregularcream/tan and partly haemorrhagic tissue 5 to 20mm.  The larger piece BAE 2 blocks. (TO: YT;AS/vo 18.7.64) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Q Ekstrum):
A, B.  Sections show pieces of tumour tissue and a small amount of adjacent gliotic brain tissue.  The tumour consists of lobules and ribbons of stratified squamous epithelium which focally includes a few mucin containing goblet cells.  The squamous epithelium sits on a loose fibrous stroma.  Within the sheets and lobules of epithelium there are loose reticular areas consistent with stellate reticulum.  Some palisading is seen at the base of the epithelium but this is not particularly prominent.  There is focal calcification.  Some pieces of tumour have a somewhat papillary architecture.  There is no necrosis and there is no cytologic atypia or evidence of malignancy.  There is a moderate, patchy infiltrate of mixed chronic inflammatory cells in part of the stroma.  The appearances are of a craniopharyngioma.  
Immunostains:
Beta-Catenin:   Positive cytoplasmic staining of tumour cells.  No nuclear staining.  
Cytokeratin CAM 5.2:   Epithelium stains positive.
Ki-67:  Manyepithelial basal cells positive.  Very few positive cells elsewhere.  
I favour this to be an adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma rather than a papillary craniopharyngioma.  This is mainly due to the presence of definite stellate reticulum in the tumour.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A, B.  Suprasellar tumour:  Craniopharyngioma (WHO grade I).
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (14.8.64):
A BRAF immunostain has been performed and the tumour cells show positive cytoplasmic staining.
This case was reviewed by Dr Q Musso, neuropathologist, at the neurosurgical pathology review meeting on 8.12.64. 
There are several features which do not fit for adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma in this case, including the lack of wet keratin, the only focal calcification, the demonstration of some mucous containing goblet cells, and the lack of a surrounding xanthomatous tissue reaction.  Also, there is no aberrant nuclear staining for beta catenin and there is now positive BRAF staining.
Overall, he favours this being a papillary craniopharyngioma rather than the adamantinomatous type.  This is still WHO grade 1.

