
Episode No:  61E890296U
6118902.ZQU

CSER, ADRIA Kara 
Lab No:  61E89029,61E89029
W Ford Brook
MOREE  SA  6911
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  3/10/1986
Sex:  F
Collected: 25/8/2064 at :
Location:  Anatomical-COOLAMON-GANMAIN MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE HOSPITAL
DR ORIANE MELISSIA Flamm
Distribution:  DR RAYFORD, DR ZACHERY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Left adnexal mass.  Pelvic mass.  Ant abdo wall biopsy, uterus/tubes/ovaries/cervix, omentum.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, tubes and ovaries" consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 236g in total.  The uterus measures 75 x 55 x 30mm with a smooth,shiny serosal surface.  Posteriorly, the serosa appears to have some haemorrhagic foci.  The ectocervix measures 25 x 25mm and appears unremarkable.  The endometrium is 1mm inmaximum thickness over total wall thickness 19mm.  The myometrium appears unremarkable.  The right tube appears distorted with a clamp, it measures 25mm in length with a maximum external diameter of 8mm.  The right ovary measures 25 x 15 x 12mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.  In the left adnexa appearing to arise near the fimbrial end of the left fallopian tube there is a mass measuring 100 x 75 x 55.  The surface appears nodular with some roughened areas identified.  The cut surface reveals cream, haemorrhagic and partly necrotic tumour throughout.  The ovary appears separate from the mass.  It measures 24 x 15 x 10mm.  The cut surface of the ovary appears unremarkable.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 4 to 6 - full LS of posterior body and cervix; 7 - right tube; 8 - right ovary; 9 & 10 - left fimbrial end of tube to tumour; 11 to 17 - further representative of tumour including surface; 18 - ovary to tumour; 19 - further left ovary.
B.  Specimen labelled "Anterior abdominal wall biopsy" consists of two pieces of fatty tissue 12 and 20mm in maximum dimension.  Each piece serially sectioned.  AE 2 blocks.
C.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a piece of omentum 370mm x 90 x 20mm.  No suspicious areas are identified.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.
(TO: KA; SO/rt 26.8.64)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr S Parmentier):
A. Sections of the left adnexal mass show an undifferentiated carcinoma (non-small cell type). The lesion is composed of solid sheets of tumour cells with pleomorphic, enlarged nuclei and prominent nucleoli.  Nuclear grooves are focally present. Probable papillae are seen in < 5%of the lesion. Rare giant tumour cells with smudgy nuclei are present. 
Thetumour cells show patchy positive staining for panCK. Positive staining is seen for p53, p16 and WT1. Focal positive staining is present for CA125 and CK7. CK20 and inhibin are negative.
ER:  	80% of nuclei stained
	predominant intensity of staining:  moderate
PR:  <1 % of nuclei stained (control shows satisfactory staining)
	predominant intensity of staining:  weak
The lesion very focally involves the left fallopian tube fimbria (A9), however the adjacent tubal epithelium shows no evidence of in situ carcinoma.
No lymphovascular invasion is seen. Tumour is seen in fibrous tissue beneath the serosal surface, which appears focally disrupted (A15). No definite tumour is identified on the serosal surface. Adherent fat is present on the surface of the lesion.
The lesion abuts butdoes not involve the left ovary which shows no evidence of malignancy.  
Endometriosis with fibrosis and haemosiderin deposition is present on the serosal surface of the uterus. The endometrium is inactive. Benign leiomyomasare present in the myometrium. The cervix shows no evidence of HPV effect or CIN. The right fallopian tube and ovary show no evidence malignancy.
B. Sections show fat with no evidence of malignancy.
C. Sections show omental fat with no evidence of malignancy.
COMMENT
The left adnexal lesion is an undifferentiated carcinoma. The left ovary is not involved. While focal involvement of the left fallopian tube fimbria is seen (A9), the adjacent tubal epithelium shows no evidence of in situ carcinoma to suggest the lesion is of tubal origin. In view of the presence of endometriosis elsewhere in the specimen, the lesion may have potentially arisen in a focus of endometriosis.
Shown to Dr JULIO CUSENZA.

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Uterus and cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries:
- Left adnexal undifferentiated carcinoma (non-small cell type) of Mullerian origin with focal involvement of the left fallopian tube fimbria (see comment)
- Both ovaries, right fallopian tube and cervix show no evidence of malignancy
- Endometriosis on serosal surface of uterus
B. Anterior abdominal wall biopsy: fat with no evidence of malignancy
C. Omentum: noevidence of malignancy

