
Episode No:  95A756796F
9507567.XPF

Shadle, DORETHEA 
Lab No:  95A75679,95A75679
Arch
RUTHERGLEN  Northern Territory  4376
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  2/3/2012
Sex:  F
Collected: 17/11/2064 at :
Location:  Cure For Life Foundation Neuro-oncology Laboratory Adult Cancer - KELLERBERRIN MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
DR LEIGH TALYIRRI Milliner
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
New symptoms irregular bowel activity and bloating.  Palpable abdominal wall mass.  Atypical cells in FNA ?recurrent clear cell cancer.  Stage IA clear cell ovarian cancer 2062.  PHx ovarian Ca.  Abdominal wall mass on CT scan.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Intraperitoneal adhesion" consists of a piece of irregular shaped pink tissue 10 x 5 x 5mm.  All for frozen section.  
Blocks:  1- frozen section.  

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:  
No malignancy seen.
Phone result to Dr Zachary by Dr X Conteras at 2.26pm on 15.09.2014.
B.  Specimen labelled "Anterior abdominal wall mass" consists of a piece of tan soft tissue 8 x 5 x 3mm.  All for frozen section.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma consistent with clear cell carcinoma.  
Phone result to Dr X Bagdonas by Dr X Hunnings at 2.46pm on 15.09.2014.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Retroperitoneal tumour" consists of a piece of irregular shaped brown tissue measuring 65 x 40 x 35mm.  Specimen serially transversely sectioned.  The cut surface revealed a friable red fleshy lesion in the fibrous tissue measuring 15 x 10 x 10mm.  Representative sections in 5 blocks.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a piece of omentum measuring 350 x 150 x 10mm.  Possible fleshy nodules are identified in the omentum 5mm in maximum dimension.  Representative sections in 6 blocks. 
(TO: RK  RV/mm 18.11.64) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr X Chaobal)
A.  Paraffin sections of the specimen examined at the time of intraoperative consultation show fibrous tissue only.   There is no evidence of malignancy. 
B.  Paraffin sections of the specimen examined at the time of intraoperative consultation confirm clear cell carcinoma.  The carcinoma has a tubulopapillary architecture.  No evidence of endometriosis is seen.  No lymphovascular invasion or perineural invasion is seen.
C.  Sections show fascia, skeletal muscle and fibroadipose soft tissue containing a 17mm deposit of clear cell carcinoma.  The carcinoma is present in dense fibrous tissue adjacent to fascia and displays a nodulocystic and tubulopapillary architecture.  There is cyst rupture with associatedstromal desmoplasia and dispersal of single malignant cells immediately adjacent to the nodulocytic tumour.  There is also adjacent organising haemorrhage.  No endometriosis is seen.  No lymphovascular or perineural is seen.  
D.  Sections show lobules of mature adiposetissue.  There is no evidence of malignancy.  
Selected slides shown to Dr X Gala.


DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Intraperitoneal adhesion:  Fibrous tissue; no evidence of malignancy.  
B.   Anterior abdominal wall mass:  Clear cell carcinoma.
C.  Retroperitoneal tumour:  Clear cellcarcinoma.  
D.  Omentum:  No evidence of malignancy. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (Reported by Dr X Eakles)(25.11.64)

At the request of Dr X Dirago the margins of excision of specimen C (retroperitoneal tumour) are assessed.  The specimenwas received unoriented and was not inked grossly making assessment of margins difficult, however, in areas there is peripheral diathermy artefact or a surface layer of red blood cells consistent with the line of excision.  In an area where the specimen appears disrupted the tumour appears to reach the diathermy line over a front of about 4mm and completeness of excision is therefore regarded as doubtful (Block C3 & C4).

