
 9090207.TSB
Hulsey, MICHELE
90X02077

Last edited : 1/5/2064		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Low anterior resection.  Rectal Ca (anaemia), AF, DM, HTN, endometrial Ca.  Melanoma.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Anterior resection", consists of a length of large bowel 210mm in length.  The entirespecimen appears above the anterior peritoneal resection margin.  55mm from the distal resection margin there is a circumferential ulcerated tumour running along the length of bowel for 48mm.  In this area the mesenteric fat in serosa appears puckered.  The cut surface reveals a cream firm tumour which penetrates through the muscularis propria into the mesenteric fat.  The tumour appears to come close to the serosal surface.  Otherwise numerous diverticulum are identified within the bowel wall.  The muscular wall of the bowel appears thickened throughout.  No apical node is identified in the mesenteric fat.  Numerous further lymph nodes are identified.  
Blocks: 1 - distal resection margin;2 - proximal resection margin; 3 to 5 - tumour to deepest point of invasion; 6 - tumour to uninvolved mucosa; 7 - diverticulum; 8 to 10 - lymph nodes from mesenteric fat; 11 - one lymph node bisected; 12 - further lymph nodes; 13 - lymph nodes from pararectal fat; 14 & 15 - further nodes.
B.  Specimen labelled "Distal donut", consists of a donut of mucosa 20 x 18 x 10mm.  No suspicious areas are identified.  Representative sections in 1 block.  
(TO: RI;NW/vo 12.1.64) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr Y Dijulio)
A.  The 48mm ulcerated tumour is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. A synoptic report for colorectal carcinoma follows:
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR COLORECTAL CARCINOMA
Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour: Proximal rectum. 	
Maximum tumour diameter: 48mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 55mm (distal - macroscopic)
Tumour perforation: Yes (pT4) 
Relation of tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection:	 Above 
Microscopic Description
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT4a	Tumour penetrates the surface of the visceral peritoneum
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not involved
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin: Clear.
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Twenty-five.	
Number of lymph nodes involved: Six (6/25). 
pN2	Metastases in 4 or more regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Foci suspicious for LVSI are seen. 
Perineural invasion
Not identified. 
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Diverticulum. 
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvant therapy
Not applicable. 
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
pTNM STAGE = 3C (pT4N2Mx)
B.  Sections of the distal bowel wall donuts show no evidence of malignancy. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Anterior resection:
48mm pTNM 3C ulcerated moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. 
Margins appear clear. 
Metastatic carcinoma in six of twenty five lymph nodes (6/25).
Markers of microsatellite instability show low risk of microsatellite instability. 

B.  Distal donut: No evidence of malignancy. 


