
Episode No:  57M835588G
574835.PUX

Matarese, NANDI 
Lab No:  57M83558
P Prairie
WALLAN  South Australia  6931
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/4/1969
Sex:  F
Collected: 05/02/2015 at 10:12
Location:  PATHOLOGYWEST-KILCOY HOSPITAL
DR WYATT Ervin Feduniewicz
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
R renal tumour.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right kidney" consists of a nephrectomy weighing 212g in total.  The kidney is 85 x 60 x 45mm, with a stripped weight of 90g.  There is surrounding perinephric fat 135 x 75 x 50mm.  The adrenal gland is notidentified.  There is ureter 60mm in length and 6mm in diameter.  Arising from the renal vein is a separate vascular branch 25mm in length which runs in the perinephric fat parallel to the ureter.  The anterior peritoneum is smooth.  Within the upper pole of the kidney is a circumscribed tan tumour, 54 x 40 x40mm.  The tumour appears separated from the perinephric fat and renal sinus/hilar fat by a thin fibrous capsule.  The tumour is 9mm clear of the perinephric fat surface.  The tumour is 20mm clear of the hilar vessel margin.  No tumour thrombus is seen within the renal vein.  The uninvolved kidney is unremarkable.  The cortical surface of the kidney appears granular.  No hilar lymph nodes are identified.  Specimen photograph taken.
Blocks:  1 - shave distal ureter margin; 2 - shave blood vessel adjacent to ureter margin; 3 - shave hilar vessel margin; 4 & 5 - tumour with perinephric fat (5 - reserved block); 6 - tumour at renal pelvis; 7 & 8 - tumour with renal hilar fat; 9 - tumour with uninvolved kidney; 10 - uninvolved kidney.
(TO: GM; AT/rt 4.8.65)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof P Barbieri):
Sections show a moderate to poorly differentiated carcinoma which is difficult to classify according to the morphological and immunohistochemical features.
The tumour shows a circumscribed low power growth pattern and is composed of sheets and nests of atypical epithelioid cells with moderate amounts of eosinophilic, granular cytoplasm. 
There is a branching thin walled vasculature throughout the tumour, imparting a vague papillary architecture with occasional tumour cells having a columnar morphology.
In some areas the sheets of cells are associated with patchy foci of necrosis. 
No convincing clear cell changeis seen.
Occasional nests of tumour cells show marked nuclear enlargement and pleomorphism consistent with a component of poorly differentiated carcinoma.
Carcinoma extends into the renal pelvis in a polypoid nodule which is partly beneath the urothelial lining but there is no definite origin from the urothelium and no urothelial carcinoma in situ is identified.
No vascular invasion is seen and the ureteric and vascular margins are free of tumour. There is no definite extension into perirenal fat.
The adjacent renal parenchyma shows patchy chronic interstitial inflammation and scattered sclerosed glomeruli as well as atheroma and calcification of large vessels, consistent with the patient's age.
Immunohistochemistry: 
The tumour cells show strong positive staining with keratin 7 and E-Cadherin.
Vimentin, CD10, keratin 5/6, keratin 20 (rare cells show weak staining), CD117, ER and PR are negative.
PAX 8 is negative.
Comment: The tumour is difficult to classify as there are overlapping features between a papillary renal cell carcinoma and a transitional cell carcinoma. 
The immunohistochemical profile is not diagnostic of either tumour, however, the negative staining for keratin 5/6 and keratin 20 would tend to exclude a transitional cell carcinoma. 
I have reviewed this case with Dr Huckabaa and the consensus opinion is that a diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma is favoured, althoughthe features are not completely typical.
DIAGNOSIS:
RIGHT KIDNEY: MODERATE TO POORLY DIFFERENTIATED CARCINOMA. 
DIFFICULT HISTOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION - FAVOUR RENAL CELL CARCINOMA OVER TRANSITIONAL CELL CARCINOMA.

