Episode No:  57K649728I
5746497.GUI

Arena, Sariyah 
Lab No:  57K64972
Laflamme
MARYBOROUGHSA  2167
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  17/12/1993
Sex:  F
Collected: 05/11/2014 at 08:46
Location:  DICKINSON 2 NORTH-CRYSTAL BROOK CAMPUS
DR Jeremy JIMMY Dimsdale
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

CLINICAL:
Ascending colon ca.  Colon ca, DM, anaemia, HTN. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy", consists of asegment of bowel consisting of terminal ileum 50mm in length, 35mm in maximum open circumference and ascending colon 125mm in length, 95mm in maximum open circumference with attached appendix 65mm in length, 6mm in maximum external dimension.  There is a discoid ulcerated lesion 25mm in diameter located 40mm from the distal resection margin and 50mm from the ileocaecal valve.  On sectioning the tumour extends through the full thickness of the muscularis propria approaching the serosal surface.  Two sessile polyps are identified 5mm across to 3mm across. No other lesions seen. Twelve lymph nodes are identified.  Block 1- proximal margin; 2- distal margin; 3 - representative sections of the appendix; 4 - two polyps; 5-8 - sections of the tumour (tumour AE); 9 - apical node three pieces; 10 & 11 - four nodes in each block; 12 - three nodes.  (TO: UJ/ec   1.7.64) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr O Morrone) 
Sections of the ascending colon tumour show a moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. A synoptic report for colorectal carcinoma follows:

SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR COLORECTAL CARCINOMA
Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour: Ascending colon. 	
Maximum tumour diameter: 25mm (macroscopic). 
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 40mm (distal margin). 
Tumour perforation: No.
Microscopic Description
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS.
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate to focally poorly (signet ring cell) differentiated. 
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularispropria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Involved 
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Twelve.	
Number of lymph nodes involved: Two (2/12). 	
One of the lymph nodes contains a granulomas, which is of uncertain clinical significance.
pN1b	Metastases in 2-3 regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Present 
Perineural invasion
Present (focal)
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMXbe assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Sections of the two polyps seen macroscopically show a tubular adenoma and a prominent mucosal fold. 
The appendix shows fibrous obliteration of the tip. There is no evidence of acute appendicitis. 
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvant therapy
Not applicable. 
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
pTNM Stage (TNM 7th Edition): 3B (pT3N1Mx)	


DIAGNOSIS:
Right hemicolectomy:
25mm pTNM Stage 3B moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.
Focal lymphovascular and perineural invasion. 
Metastatic adenocarcinoma is present in two of twelve nodes (2/12). 
One of the lymph nodes contains an incidental granuloma, of uncertain clinical significance. 
Markers of microsatellite instability show a low risk of microsatellite instability. 
 

