Episode No:  38Q704855X
386704.UNP

Mackeen, Dorsey 
Lab No:  38Q70485
Cape McKinsey
PORTLAND  Tasmania  2146
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  28/6/1988
Sex:  M
Collected: 5/5/2065 at :
Location:  ST VINCENT'S PATHOLOGY
DR Myron Scott ADSIT
Distribution:     FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Tumour right middle lobe with tethering to adjacent right lower lobe.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "(R) Middle lobe/part lower lobe" consists of a lobectomy measuring 130 x 105 x 35mm.  Thehilar area measures 30 x 30mm. There is a stapled margin, 40mm in length. The pleural surface is intact and smooth, aside from an area which is puckered and has a separate wedge of lung attached (right lower lobe). This lung wedge measures 30 x 15 x 10mm with a separate staple measuring 40mm in length.  The hilum is inked blue.  The stapled margins are removed, the longer staple is inked blue and the shorter staple is inked black.  On sectioning there is a firm tan tumour with pale yellow areas measuring 15 x 10 x 10mm.  The tumour abuts the pleural surface of the right middle lobe and is adherent to the separate segment of right lower lobe. The tumour is 3mm from the removed black stapled margin and 5mm from the hilar margin inked blue.  The lung away from the tumour has multiple diffuse small cystic spaces, 1 to 5mm in diameter.
Blocks:  1- bronchial margin; 2 - vascular margin; 3 to 5 - tumour; 6 - lung adjacent to tumour section (block 4); 7 - representative lung away from tumour; 8 - nodular area adjacent to ?bronchus; 9 - tumour for tumour bank.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Inferior pulmonary ligament" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 6mm in maximum dimension.  AE 1 block.
C.  Specimen labelled "Paratracheal node" consists of two lymph nodes covered in fibrofatty tissue measuring 20 and 12mm in maximum dimension.  Lymph nodes are serially sectioned AE.
Blocks:  1- largest lymph node; 2 - one lymph node serially sectioned.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Hilar lymph node" consists of a brown lymph node measuring 11mm in maximum dimension.  Serially sectioned AE 1 block.
(JQ/mm 6.5.65) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr J Kneisel & registrar Dr J Ramlall):
A.  Sections show an 11mm peripheral tumour with extensive necrosis towards the centre of the lesion.  Towards the periphery of the tumour, the cells have squamoid morphology focally formingkeratin pearls, while towards the centre of the lesion glandular morphology with mucin production is seen.  Focal myxoid stroma is seen within the lesion.
The tumour cells show positive staining with panCK, CAM5.2, CK5/6, p63, TTF-1 and CK7.  The CK20 and S100 stains are negative.

The morphological appearance and immunohistochemicalprofile are consistent with adenosquamous carcinoma.  Lymphovascular is present however, no perineural invasion is seen.  The tumour is situated within the right middle lobe and breaches the pleural surface at the point of contact of theattached right lower lobe.  The stapled resection margins appear well clear of tumour.

B.  The single (1) lymph node identified shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

C.  The two (2) lymph nodes identified show no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

D.  The one (1) lymph node identified shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.


SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR INVASIVE LUNG CARCINOMA
Specimen type:  Right middle lobectomy with adherent portion of right lower lobe.  	
	Topography:  Peripheral  
	Tumour location:  Right middle lobe. 	
	Tumour size:  11mm.  

