
Episode No:  82U753930Q
8277539.IAQ

Zirker, Nathaniel DHIRRIL 
Lab No:  82U75393
Timberlee
TEA GARDENS  SA  6397
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  27/11/1988
Sex:  F
Collected: 22/08/2012 at 16:35
Location:  Hereditary - WARIALDA MULTIPURPOSE SERVICE
DR Andres Partington
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (30.10.62):


CLINICAL:
Background of breast cancer.  Metastatic.  ? 2nd ovarian primary metastatic. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Patient details checked by ZB
A.  Specimen labelled "Terminal ileum", consists of a segment of small bowel 210mm in length with attached mesenteric fatty tissue up to 70mm in thickness and two separate pieces of fibrofatty tissue 70 x 65 x 50mm in aggregate. There are numerous tan firm nodules within the mesenteric fat, on the peritoneum and the separate pieces of fibrofatty tissue. The largest nodule is 55mm in maximum dimension.  The small bowel mucosa appears normal.  Blocks 1 & 2- shaved margins of the small bowel; 3 & 4- TS ofthe small bowel and mesenteric nodules; 5 - representative peritoneal deposits; 6 - representative section of one of the nodules, reserved block for tumour bank; 7 - representative sections of one of the nodules. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Right ovary", consists ofan ovary 62 x 55 x 40mm.  The fallopian tube is not identified.  Slicing reveals a tan firm lobulated cut surface.  No normal ovarian parenchyma is identified.  Blocks 1-6 - representative sections. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Omental cake", consists of a 310 x 180 x 70mm piece of omental tissue. There are numerous tan firm nodules involving almost all of the omental tissue.  Block 1- representative section.  (CK/ec  25.10.62) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr W Revel)  
A.Sections of the described omental and peritoneal nodules show deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma.  The tumour consists of closely packed, back to back glands and some solid areas.  The glands are lined bycolumnar epithelial cells with moderately pleomorphic, vesicular nuclei and eosinophilic cytoplasm.  The appearances are most consistent with a metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma from ovary.  A section from one of the small bowel resection margins shows focal tumour cells within thickened subserosal tissue.  A section of the other small bowel resection margin is free of tumour.  
B.  Sections show tumour with a similar appearance to specimen A.  The features are most consistent with an endometrioid adenocarcinoma of ovary, grade 2.  No normal ovaryis identified.  Immunostains will be performed and a supplementary report issued.  
C.  Sections show omentum with extensive involvement by similar tumour to specimensA & B.  Some necrosis is noted.  There is focal squamoid differentiation.  The appearances are most consistent with metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Terminal ileum:  Multiple deposits of metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma in omentum and on adjacent peritoneum.
B.  Right ovary:  Endometrioid adenocarcinoma, grade 2.  
C.  Omentum:  Metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (30.10.62):
Immunostains have now been performed.
The tumour cells stain cytokeratin 7, oestrogen receptor and progesterone receptor positive but cytokeratin 20 and CDX2 negative.
Oestrogen receptor:  100% of tumour cells show positive staining.
                                  Predominant staining intensity - Strong.
Progesterone receptor:  100% of tumour cells show positive staining.
                                       Predominant staining intensity - Strong.
The slides of the present tumour will be compared to those of the previous breast carcinoma when these become available, and a further supplementary report issued.

