
Episode No:  85J609709W
8536097.AYW

NUTTER, Khadijah Iona 
Lab No:  85J60970
Leechpool
ALICE SPRINGS  TAS  2902
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  21/3/1997
Sex:  F
Collected: 14/09/2012 at 18:41
Location:  SEALS central-WOLLONGONG HOSPITAL
DR Freeman Myles Potvin
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Left hepatic duct cholangiocarcinoma - laparotomy.  Liver resection.
1. Left hemihepatectomy + hilar lymph node dissection + CBD resection.  . Lesser sac lymph node.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Patient details checked by QS
A.  Specimen labelled " Liver and gallblader" consists of a segment of liver with attached gallbladder.  The liver measures 120mm (medial-lateral) x 120mm (superior-inferior)x 70mm (anterior-posterior).  Multiple cysts are identified on the surface of the liver.  On section, there is a firm white and very gritty tumour 60 x 40 x 35mm.  Macroscopically it appears to infiltrate large ?vessels ?ducts.  There also appear to be several dilated ?vessels ?ducts distal to the tumour, some dilated up to 10mm in diameter.  The common bile duct is identified and measures 45mm inlength and up to 10mm in maximum diameter.  The gallbladder is attached and measures 90 x 20 x 20mm.  The cystic duct measures 60 x 5 x 5mm.  Two lymph nodes are identified in the hilum measuring 15 and 10mm in length. 
Blocks:  1- surgical margin from a ?vessel; 2 - surgical margin common bile duct; 3 - representative section of common bile duct 20mm from the surgical margin; 4 - representative section from the bile duct 30mm from the surgical margin; 5 & 6 - longitudinal sections of common bile duct surrounded by tumour; 7 - tumour abutting the hepatic surgical margin; 8 to 12 - representative sections from tumour; 13 & 14 - representative sections from liver with dilated ?vessels; 15 - representative sections from liver away from tumour with small white nodules; 16 - representative section from the origin of the cystic duct; 17 - gallbladder neck and body; 18 - gallbladder fundus; 19 - cystic duct lymph node; 20 & 21 - one hilar lymph node each; 22 to 24 - three lymph nodes from hilum; 25 - tumour selected for tissue bank.
B.  Specimen labelled "Lymph node lesser sac" consists of three lymph nodes 15, 20 and 5mm. 
Blocks:  1 to 3 - one bisected lymph node each block.   (KU/cc 19/11/62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr W Bailey): 
A. The sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma consistent with cholangiocarcinoma.  The tumour surrounds the large bile ducts near the hilum.  Although most of the bile ductepithelium has been sloughed, atypical cells arising from the epithelium and forming papillary structures protruding into the duct can be seen (slide A5).  The tumour invades into adjacent liver and soft tissues and involves the caudate, left and right lobes.  Several small tumour nodules, many involving the portal tracts, are found distant from the main lesion (e.g., slide A 15 in the left lobe).  Malignant cells focally reach the capsular surface of the liver.  There is patchy chronic inflammation but no cirrhosis in the liver.  Several irregularly dilated bile ducts are seen and atypical epithelial cells are present in occasional dilated bile ducts.  
tumour has a heterogenous appearance.  In many areas, there are glandular structures with abundant fibrotic stroma.  Variable amounts of mucin formation are seen, highlighted by the PAS stain.  Inother areas, there are micropapillary structures or cribriform glands with central necrosis.  There is a variable degree of pleomorphism in the tumour cells.  The cytoplasm varies from clear to pale eosinophilic and is moderately abundant. The tumour cells strongly express keratin 19 antigen by the immunoperoxidase technique.  Keratin 7 antigen is also expressed but in a patchy distribution.  There is no convincing expression of Hep-Par 1 antigen. Membranous expression ofbeta catenin is present but not nuclear expression of this antigen.  The tumour extends to the soft tissue resection margin over a 5mm front (block A5) and focally it is 0.3mm from the liver resection margin (block A6).  Tumour is foundwithin thin walled lymphovascular channels in the portal tracts but no tumour is found within major branches of the hepatic artery and portal vein.  Prominent perineural invasion ispresent.
The liver tissue abutting the tumour shows necrosis, reactive biliary proliferation and cholestasis.
No malignancy or dysplasia is seen in the vascular margin (slide A1) and common bile duct margin (slide A2). No definite malignancy or dysplasia is seen in the cysticduct margin (slide A16) but some of the tissue is distorted by diathermy artefact and difficult to evaluate. 
Metastatic adenocarcinoma is seen in four of five hilar lymph nodes with extranodal spread present.  There is direct invasion of another hilar node (slide A10).
The gallbladder is slightly dilated and thin walled but shows no malignancy or dysplasia.  However, most of the mucosa shows autolytic changes.  No malignancy is seen in the cystic duct lymph node (slide A19).
TNM classification AJCC (7th edition) 
pT2 pN1 pMx
B. The three lymph nodes show an incidental finding of lipogranulomas.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
CONCLUSION
A. Liver: Left hepatic duct cholangiocarcinoma with perineural andlymphovascular invasion; five of six hilar nodes contain adenocarcinoma.
B. Lesser sac lymph nodes: No malignancy in three nodes.

