Episode No:  89L639326V
894639.JGR

LAZARZ, GISELE 
Lab No:  89L63932
North Willow
BURPENGARY  New South Wales  1158
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  24/11/2017
Sex:  F
Collected: 09/01/2013 at 15:38
Location:  Forensic Medicine-FRANKSTON HOSPITAL
DR Lewis Javier Stokel
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Hepatic mets resected.  
Addition information obtained from Dr Trudics:
Outside biopsy showed adenocarcinoma in a rectal biopsy (excision not yet performed).
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Liver resection (right hemi)" consists of a hemihepatectomy with gallbladder attached measuring 155 x 95 x 85mm.  Specimen was received with an incision through the capsule.  Three deposits of cream ill defined tumour are identified all which abut the capsular surface.  Lesion 1 measures 90 x 65 x 65mm and comes to 20mm from the surgical resectionmargin.  Lesion 2 measures 35 x 35 x 33mm and comes to 24mm from the surgical resection margin.  Lesion 3 measures 10 x 10 x 8mm and is well clear of the surgical resection margin.  Each of the lesions has large amounts of necrosis identified within it.  Lesion 1 appears to be situated posteriorly and the tumour is seen to abut the ? bare area. The remainder of the liver appears unremarkable.  The gallbladder measures 80mm in length with a maximal external diameter of40mm.  The serosa appears unremarkable.  The maximum thickness of the wall is 3mm.  The mucosa appears smooth and velvety.  No gallstones are identified.  No cystic duct lymph node is identified.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - lesion 1; 4 & 5 -lesion 2; 6 - lesion 3; 7 - uninvolved liver; 8 - representative gallbladder; 9 - reserved block; 10 to 13 - representative lesion 1 to ? bare area; 14 - lesion 1 including junction of peritonealised and bare area.   (TO: DF; BW/mm 3.12.63) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr W Poczobut)
Sections show three separate subcapsular deposits of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma ranging from 10mm to 90mm in maximum dimension.  The deposits are predominantly composed of a cribriform or fenestrated arrangement of large malignant glands lined by cells with moderately pleomorphic nuclei.  There is  prominent central necrosis within the complex large glands.  A lesser component of smaller malignant tubular glands is also present.  No definite lymphovascular invasion is seen (some peritumoural retraction artefact and tumour carry over).  
The closest deposit is 17mm clear of the surgical resection margin and abuts but does not appear to penetrate the liver capsule at the bare (non-peritonealised) area of the liver (block 14).
Away from the deposits the liver displays a normal lobular architecture.  The portal tracts contain a normal complement of bile ducts, hepatic arteries and hepatic veins and there is no significant portal fibrosis or inflammation.  Apart from minimal patchy macrovascular steatosis the hepatocytes are unremarkable.  An occasional portal Von-Meyenberg complex (bile duct hamartoma) is noted.  The gallbladder is essentially normal.  
Immunohistochemistry:
The tumour cells stain as follows:
Positive:  CK20 (patchy minimal), TTF1 (Novocastra clone SPT24 - diffuse strong), CDX2 (diffuse strong).
Negative:  CK7, ER, PR, CA125.
COMMENT:
In the context of a rectal lesion the morphological appearances and diffuse CDX2 immunoexpression are compatible with metastatic rectal adenocarcinoma.  However, the presence of minimal patchy positive tumoural CK20 immunostaining and diffusely positive TTF1 immuonstaining is unusual for colorectal carcinoma.  Thelatter finding is more typically seen in lung adenocarcinoma or thyroid carcinomas but positive expression has been reported in a subset of colorectal adenocarcinomas with the TTF1 antibody used in this case (Novocastra SPT24 clone).  Further clinical and radiological correlation is advised. Comparison with the morphological appearances of the rectal biopsy may be helpful.

DIAGNOSIS:
Right hemihepatectomy:
-  Three deposits of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma 10 to 90mm in maximum dimension (see comment).
-  17mm clear of surgical resection margin and abutting the bare (non-peritonealised) area of the liver.

