SPR no: 05A764650R
MRN no: 0507646
Site_name: HUNTER NEW ENGLAND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Excision of lesion right arm ?sarcoma.  Short stitch 12 o&amp;apos;clock.  Long stitch lateral.  Please tissue biobank consent done.  Fall fractured L3, fractured (R) patella.  IDDM/hypertension/hypercholesterolemia.


Note:  Received fresh, discussed with surgeon Dr RIGOBERTO POKORNY -&amp;gt; Margins are important if biobank disrupts margins do not biobank.  Formalin added without tumour biobanked.  21/10/68 JR.


MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right arm lesion stitch short - superior, long - posterior&amp;quot;, consists of an oriented circular excision of skin measuring, 62 x 60 x 25mm.  There are two sutures orienting short - superior, and long - posterior.  The specimen is inked as follows - anterior blue and posterior black.  On the surface of the skin there is a scar with prominent granulation tissue measuring, 20mm in length.  On sectioning there is a well circumscribed firm lesion within the  subcutaneous tissue and extending into the scar measuring, 17 x 15 x 15mm.  The tumour appears well circumscribed with a smooth border.  The margins appear clear and are as follows - 2mm from the posterior margin, 3mm from the anterior margin, and 2mm from the deep margin, well away from the superior and inferior margins.  The tumour also appears to arise from the overlying scar.  The lesion is all embedded.  Please see block diagram.
Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - superior margin LS embedded from posterior to anterior; 3, 4, 5 &amp;amp; 6, 7 &amp;amp; 8, 9 &amp;amp; 10, 11 &amp;amp; 12, 13 &amp;amp; 14, 15 - TS from anterior to posterior through scar embedded from superior to inferior; 16 &amp;amp; 17 - inferior margin LS embedded from posterior to anterior.  (TO:JL/rs 21/10/66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr A Shiminski):
The specimen is entirely embedded and examined.  Sections of skin to subcutis with fascia and striated muscle at the deep aspect.  Expanding both the dermis and subcutis is a tumour with multinodular architecture.  Although part of the lesion appears pushing,  the tumour has significant infiltrative component at its periphery.  The tumour is composed of atypical spindle cell within background variable fibrus or myxoid stroma.  Cellularity is variable with moderately cellular areas corresponding to areas of less myxoid stroma, and relatively hypocellular areas associated with myxoid stroma.  Within the latter areas there are occasional curvilinear thin walled vessels.  There is variable nuclear pleomorphism with areas of nuclear enlargement of hyperchromasia admixed with spindle cells which are relatively bland, the latter especially seen at the tumour perimete. difficult.  Mitoses number up to 30 per 10 hpf and there is patchy necrosis.

Margins:
Assessing margins of clearance is extremely difficult because at its periphery  infiltrative tumour appears to merge with adjacent spindle cell scar tissue.  At the deep aspect the tumour mostly abuts the fascia and not penetrate it, however, focally relatively bland spindle cells, favoured to represent tumour, appear to penetrate the fascia and just reach the deep margin over a front of approximately 0.4mm (block 11).  Radially the tumour appears to extend outwards as thin bands within the plane of the subcutis as does organising scar.  Although apparently petering out towards the margins  and becoming less cellular, the  tumour appears to focally reach both the anterior and posterior radial margins (blocks 10, 12  and 7).  Patchy haemosiderin and neovascularisation is present amongst tumour cells.   Elsewhere along the anterior and posterior margin centrally within the specimen, the tumour appears to extend close to this margin but is probably clear.  Probable hypocellular tumour also reaches the inferior margin (block 16).  The superior margin appears clear by at least 5mm.
Selected slides of the margins were seen in consultation with Dr A Lyew who agrees that assessment of clearance is difficult but that the margins  are positive as above.


COMMENT:
The features are similar to those described in the report of the previous biopsy reviewed by Prof Miss RONCO in which diagnosis of intermediate myxofibrosarcoma was rendered.  The tumour within the biopsy was Vimentin immunoreactive but negative for a broad panel of other immmunomarkers.  The tumour in this excision specimen is grade 3 (FNLCC grade tumour differentiation score 2, mitotic score 3, necrosis score 1, total score =6)


DIAGNOSIS:
Lesion right arm excision:
-  Myxofibrosarcoma, high grade (grade 3) positive margins (see above).
The findings were discussed with Dr A Erenrich on 5.10.69
