SPR no: 70F957323I
MRN no: 7029573
Site_name: MUNDUBBERA MULTIPURPOSE HEALTH SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report70F95732 (70F957323I) SIGWART, PAULA
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:
HISTORY:
Peritonectomy, colorectal cancer.
1.  Peritoneal nodule.
2.  Hilar lymph node.
3.  Small bowel nodule for frozen section.
Met CRC peritonectomy, duodenum 1, 2, 3, 4 for frozen section.
Met CRC peritonectomy, duodenum for frozen section.
CRC peritonectomy, rectum, uterus + ovaries, spleen, omentum, gallbladder, front of IVC (anterior caval wall), peritoneum, right perinephric fat.
Previous Histopath H17-020229 (27/6/2068)
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;PERITONEAL NODULE&amp;quot;.  A piece of tissue 7mm.  Bisected, all embedded for frozen section. AE (M-1).
Frozen section report: &amp;apos;Fibrous with mesothelial reaction and focal atypical cell groups of uncertain significance&amp;apos;
B.  &amp;quot;HILAR LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;.  A lymph node 14x8x6mm.  Bisected, half embedded for frozen section. (1  frozen section; 2  remainder).  AE (M-2).
Frozen section report: &amp;quot;Negative for malignancy&amp;quot;.
C.  &amp;quot;SMALL BOWEL NODULE&amp;quot;.  A piece of tissue 6mm maximum dimension.  Bisected, all embedded for frozen section. AE (M-1).
Frozen section report: &amp;quot;Negative for malignancy.  Adhesion&amp;quot;. Results given by phone to Dr. Minh (Anaesthetist) at 10:07hrs on 28.08.2019 by Dr. T. Merrill (Specimen A, B and C).
D.  &amp;quot;DUODENUM 1&amp;quot;.  A thin strip of tissue 12x3x2mm.  All tissue embedded for frozen section. AE (1-1).
Frozen section report: &amp;quot;Negative&amp;quot;.
E.  &amp;quot;DUODENUM 2&amp;quot;.  A piece of tissue 3mm.  All tissue for frozen section. AE (1-1).
Frozen section report: &amp;quot;Negative&amp;quot;.
F.  &amp;quot;DUODENUM 3&amp;quot;.  Three pieces of tissue 2 to 3mm.  All embedded for FS. AE (M-1).
Frozen section report: &amp;quot;Negative&amp;quot;.
G.  &amp;quot;DUODENUM 4&amp;quot;.  Two pieces of tissue 3mm and 8x6x3mm.  All tissue embedded for frozen section. AE (M-1).
Frozen section report: &amp;quot;Glandular epithelium with very low grade appearance ?-------&amp;quot;.
D, E, F&amp;amp;G results given by phone to Dr. Dante GUTTMANN (Anaesthetist) at 11:06hrs on 29.08.2018 by Dr. T. Odorizzi.
H.  &amp;quot;DUODENUM&amp;quot;.  A piece of pale soft tissue 8mm.  Bisected.  All embedded. AE (M-1).
Frozen section report: &amp;quot;Small intestinal type tissue ?duplication cyst ?heterotopia ?normal duodenum.  Negative for malignancy&amp;quot;.  Results given by phone to Dr. Greber (Surgical Fellow) at 11:43hrs on 29.08.2016 by Dr. T. Warnes.
J.  &amp;quot;ANTERIOR CAVAL WALL&amp;quot;.  A piece of fibrous tissue, it measures 35x10x5mm.  No suspicious areas identified macroscopically.  Trisected.  AE (M-1).
K.  &amp;quot;RIGHT PERINEPHRIC FAT&amp;quot;.  A piece of fibrofatty tissue, it measures 150x140x35mm.  On sectioning through the tissue, no suspicious areas are identified.  RS (M-4).
L.  &amp;quot;COLON, SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, RIGHT DIAPHRAGM, BILATERAL OVARIES, UTERUS, OMENTUM, SMALL BOWEL, RECTUM MARKING AT DISTAL END&amp;quot;.
- Gallbladder, spleen, a segment of small bowel anastomosed to large bowel with attached omentum.  A segment  of large bowel consistent with rectum and uterus with attached cervix with bilateral tubes and ovaries.
- Gallbladder measures 80mm in length with a maximum diameter of 20mm.  The serosa is unremarkable.  The wall is up to 3mm thick.  Mucosa is granular green in appearance.  There are no stones found within the lumen.
(1  cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 2  body and fundus).
- Spleen weighs 170g and it measures 130x90x35mm.  The capsule is partially roughened.
and in one area appears glistening. The splenic parenchyma is red to brown.  No lesions noted within the splenic parenchyma. (3&amp;amp;4  glistening area noted on capsule).
- Small bowel anastomosed to large bowel and attached omentum.  Omentum measures 760x180x25mm.  There is a firm nodule measuring up to 30mm.  On sectioning through the nodule, it has a tan to pale yellow appearance. (5&amp;amp;6  representative sections of the nodule [5  tumour block]).
- The attached bowel comprising of small bowel anastomosed to large bowel measures 380mm in length with a proximal diameter of 20mm, distal diameter of 20mm.  The serosa of both bowels is mildly roughened.  The small bowel is adherent to itself.  On opening, no lesions are noted within the mucosa.  The site of anastomosis appears unremarkable.  Both margins are inked blue. (7  margins; 8  sections where the small bowel adheres to itself; 9  roughened serosa of large bowel; 10&amp;amp;11  sections through site of anastomosis; 12&amp;amp;13  possible lymph nodes [12  three nodes, 13  one node bisected]).
- Uterus, cervix, bilateral tube and ovaries, altogether weighs 105g.  Anterior is inked blue, posterior black.  The uterus with attached cervix measures 75mm superior to inferior, 50mm intercornual distance, 15mm anterior endomyometrium, 20mm posterior endomyometrium.  The endometrium is less than 1mm thick.  Ectocervix is 25x15mm with a slit-like os 15mm.  It is cream coloured and unremarkable.  The serosa is mildly roughened over the fundus.  On sectioning through the myometrium, there are multiple nodules with pale white whorled cut surface consistent with fibroids.  They range from 2 to 7mm.  No other lesion is noted macroscopically.  Posteriorly is reflected peritoneum measuring 90x30mm.  It is firm.  No obvious macroscopic lesions are identified.  Right ovary and fallopian tube together weigh 10g.  Fallopian tube measures 55mm in length with a maximum diameter of 10mm.  Ovary is 40x15x10mm.  The serosal surfaces appear partially roughened.  The serosa of the fallopian tube is also dusky in appearance.  On sectioning through the ovary, the cut surface is firm and normal appearance.  The left ovary and fallopian tube together weigh 7g.  Fallopian tube measures 40mm in length with a maximum diameter of 6mm.  Ovary is 25x17x15mm.  The serosal surfaces are unremarkable.  On sectioning through the ovary, it has a firm normal-appearing cut surface. (14  anterior and posterior cervix; 15  anterior endomyometrium; 16  posterior endomyometrium; 17  roughened area over fundus; 18  reflected peritoneum posteriorly firm area; 19  right fallopian tube and ovary; 20  left fallopian tube and ovary).
- Segment  of large bowel consistent with rectum and suture as described.  It measures 95mm in length with a maximum diameter of 35mm.  There is attached mesorectum up to 35mm thick.  Proximal is inked blue, distal black, radial green.  On opening, the mucosa is unremarkable.  The serosa appears mildly roughened and there is areas of firmness over the mesorectum. (21  proximal margin; 22  distal margin; 23-25  firm areas within the fat).
- Separate pieces of fibrofatty tissue in aggregate measure 100x90x15mm.  No suspicious areas are noted macroscopically. (26  representative sections of fibrofatty tissue).  RS (M-26/MC 1/8/2065 km).

MICROSCOPIC:   T Bubar  cy
A. Sections show peritoneal tissue with fibrosis and reactive mesothelial cells.
B. Lymph node, no tumour.
C. External muscularis propria with surface adhesions.
D. Fibrous granulation tissue.
E. Peritoneal tissue with fibrosis.
F. Fibrosis.
G. Small intestinal mucosa with fibrous submucosal tissue and some attached adipose tissue.
H. Duodenal mucosa with fibrous submucosa and some fibrotic muscularis propria with attached fibroadipose tissue.
J. Fibrofatty connective tissue with a smooth surface, probably peritoneal with areas of fibrosis.
K. Fibrofatty connective tissue with areas of fatty and some skeletal muscle and embedded mashed material with a foreign body giant cell reaction and fibrosis.
L. (main specimens)
- The omental nodule is metastatic moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with a minor mucinous carcinoma component. The tumour nodule shows a central area of necrosis but most area of the tumour are viable.
- The last described piece of large bowel has a second deposit of mesenteric adenocarcinoma of similar appearance within mesocolic tissue with adjacent fibrous adhesions. The fibrous tumour stroma extends to peritoneal surface.
- The other pieces of small and large bowel show surface fibrous adhesions and areas of suture granuloma reaction around a previous apparent anastomosis but sampled mesenteric lymph nodes are negative for tumour (0/4).
- The gallbladder is unremarkable.
- The spleen shows a small subcapsular lymphangioma.
- Ectocervical mucosa, endocervical mucosa and endometrium is unremarkable. There are small uterine leiomyomas present. Sections of both ovary and tubes are unremarkable.

Comment
Correlation with previous pathology recommended.
No Immunostains or other tests done.
See previous Histooath report for MMRP studies.

DIAGNOSIS:
A-L. PERITONECTOMY SPECIMEN, VARIOUS TISSUES -
- Omental and mesocolic deposits of metastatic moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (consistent with colorectal origin in the given clinical setting), present in main specimens, other frozen section samples and smaller biopsies negative for tumour.
