
Episode No:  62B233690X
6202336.ZAX

HUYARD, NELSON 
Lab No:  62B23369
Alvernaz
LEETON  Queensland  1237
Specimen: Tissue.O.B:  19/2/2001
Sex:  M
Collected: 24/05/2013 at 14:02
Location:  POW L7 CONSULTING ROOMS-LAUNCESTON GENERAL HOSPITAL
DR PHILIP CHANG PHILMORE
Distribution:   FILE-COPY

***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ADDED: EXTERNAL PATHOLOGY REVIEW 
(Professor Bement, 105 HAMRUN CIRCUIT Pathologists) 

CLINICAL:
Left hemi hepatectomy.  Left lobe of liver, gallbladder.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left lateral liver" consists of a wedge of liver measuring 190 x 95 x 40mm and weighing 351g.  There are two exposed areas (presumed surgical margin) measuring 100 x 35mm and 60 x 15mm, both inked blue.  The staple margin is removed and inked black.  On sectioning there is an irregular cream mass (nodule 1) measuring 30 x 20 x 35mm that appears to abut the surgical margin.  There is a further triangular subcapsular lesion (nodule 2) measuring 30 x 20 x 40mm. Between nodule 1 and 2 there are several cream nodules 5-10mm. The liver also contains several dilated ducts, two calculi are present within these ducts, 10 and 12mm. The remaining liver parenchyma is macroscopically unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 & 2 - (paired blocks) mass deep to surgical margin; 3 to 5  - sections from base of nodule 1 to nodule 2 ; 6 - further section of mass nodule 1; 7 & 8 - (paired blocks) representative nodule 2; 9 - further section of nodule 2; 10 - section of macroscopically uninvolved liver.
B.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of a gallbladder received unopened measuring 80 x 40 x 25mm.  The serosal surface appears congested.  Nocystic duct lymph node is identified.  One gallstone is contained within the gallbladder measuring 30 x 23 x 15mm.  The mucosa appears slightly flattened in areas but is otherwise unremarkable.  The maximum wall thickness is 3mm.
Blocks: 1 - cystic duct; 2 - two TS gallbladder body; 3 - two LS gallbladder fundus.  
(FJ/ta 26/7/63) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr Q Rosebure)
A.  Sections of the liver lesion show broad area of confluent fibrosis containing variably ectatic to narrowed bile ducts and a moderate to heavy mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate. Some of the larger ducts contain small remnants of calculus debris attached to their reactive epithelial lining, while smaller ducts show periductal oedema and luminal narrowing. Some of the ducts contain acute inflammatory cells  with inflammatory cell exocytosis and patchy mild reactive change of the epithelium. A proliferation of small calibre bile ducts is present in areas. The inflammation consists of lymphocytes, plasma cells, eosinophils,histiocytes and neutrophils. There are scattered foreign body giant cells, some of which surround cholesterol cleft like spaces, as well as, a granuloma. No pathogenic organisms are seen with PASf and truants. No significant cytologicatypia or necrosis is identified. The lesion extends to within 0.25mm of the inked margin. The immediately adjacent liver parenchyma shows large duct obstructive type changes including a bile ductular proliferation and acute inflammation within the portal tracts. The uninvolved liver shows mild mixed portal inflammation with patchy mild macrovesicular steatosis. No dPAS positive alpha-1-antitrypsin globules are seen. Special stains for iron and copper are pending. Thereis patchy early fibrosis. No convincing cirrhosis is seen. 
Immunohistochemical stains were performed and the results are as follows:
Lesion positive for: SMA (strong background staining within area of confluent fibrosis).
Lesion negative for: Desmin, CAM5.2, CD23, CD21, ALK1 and pancytokeratin (non-specific).  
Kappa and lambda stains show no evidenceof light chain restriction.
B.  Sections of gallbladder show chronic active cholecystitis. The lamina propria contains a moderate, diffuse mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate, including numerous neutrophils. In areas, the neutrophils infiltrate the surface epithelium and there are scattered lymphoid aggregates and follicles. The muscularis propria is thickened and there is Rokitansky-Aschoff sinus formation. One pericholecystic lymph node shows reactive change (0/1). There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy. 
COMMENT:
The left lateral liver lesion consists of a broad area of confluent fibrosis containing variably ectatic to narrowed bile ducts and a moderate to heavy mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate. There is prominent diffuse staining for SMA, and desmin, ALK-1 and cytokeratin stains are negative. The overall histologic features favour hepatolithiasis with an obstructive cholangitis, large duct obstruction within the adjacent liver and a chronic active cholecystitis. However, the differential diagnosis could also include an inflammatory pseudo-tumour; primary inflammatory bile duct disease; and although considered less likely, an infective etiology. Given the broad differential diagnosis, this case will be sent to Professor RANDOLPH HYSMITH at DAYSURGERY UNIT Pathologists, for his expert opinion, and an additional report will be issued. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left lateral liver: Hepatolithiasis with an associated fibroinflammatory lesion, bile duct proliferation and features of large duct obstruction within the adjacent liver (see comment).

B.  Gallbladder: Chronic activecholecystitis.

This case is being sent to Professor Uhrig (Douglas Hanly Moir Pathologists) and a supplementary report will be issued.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:  (26.8.63)
Professor Fregeau (SA Pathology Pathologists) reports:
"Microscopic:
There is a fibroinflammatory process with a ductocentric distribution.  The mixed inflammatory infiltrate includes plasma cells, eosinophils and neutrophils, as well as foreign body giant cells containing cholesterol crystals (see photograph 1) from calculous debris.There is a similar reaction on the inner surface of ulcerated larger ducts (see photograph 2). Periductal onion skinning fibrosis and oedema are also seen.  IgG4 staining is negative in the plasma cells (stain performed at STGEORGE PRIVATE).
Important:  I also considered the differential diagnoses you suggested, as well as IgG4 related disease.  The prominence of extraductal cholesterol debris and also focal duct dilation with residual calculous material leads me to favour your diagnosis of hepatolithiasis causing a fibroinflammatory "pseudotumour".  Localised or segmental PSC is considered less likely. 
A family history should betaken.  Some patients with hepatolithiasis develop stones because of low levels of MDR3 (ABCB4 mutation). A family history of the following: early cholecystitis (low phospholipid-associated cholecystitis - LPAC - syndrome),jaundice of pregnancy in females, drug induced jaundice and unexplained biliary cirrhosis can be present in patients with inherited MDR3 deficiency.  If the family history is suggestive, ursodeoxycholic acid is of benefit to prevent lithiasis. I am not aware of any Australian centres that provided MDR3 gene analysis".  
 


