
Episode No:  36Q395774X
3663957.SMX

BAAR, DOLORES 
Lab No:  36Q39577
Loman
PEREGIAN BEACH  QLD  1195
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  30/10/2038
Sex:  F
Collected: 30/05/2013 at 11:49
Location:  Douglass Hanly Moir - MURGON HOSPITAL
DR SARGE SCOT DELONGIS
Distribution:  DR GUADALUPE-STREVELL,  FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Left breast lump at 3 -4 o'clock, 6cm FN + second (detected US) lesion 3-4 o'clock 7cm FN.  Cores are papillary lesion and fibroepithelial lesions, respectively.   Hookwire guided excision biopsy.  P/H Fibroadenoma removed from the left breast when she was 22yrs old.  Strong family history of breast cancer.  Her mother is currently suffering from breast cancer and her grandmother died of breast cancer.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Left breast lesion with hook wire marking stitch short superior, long lateral, medium medial" consists of a piece of breast tissue with three marking stitches and a guide wire measuring 55mm (lateral to medial) x 60mm (superior to inferior) x 20mm (superficial to deep).  There are two guide wires within the specimen.  Margins are inked in three colours:  superior - red, superficial - blue and deep - black.  Specimen is serially sectioned into ten slices from lateral to medial.  There is an ill defined tan nodule tan nodule 9 x 20 x 12mm in slices three and four.Separate from this lesion is slice five there is an 11 x 10 x 10mm tan firm nodule.  There is a punctate haemorrhage in slice four associated with the first lesion.  There are multiple punctate haemorrhages in slices seven and eight over an area measuring 11 x 8 x 8mm.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - slice one (lateral margin); 4 & 5 - slice two; 6 & 7 - slice three; 8 & 9 - slice four; 10 to 12 - slice five; 13 to 15 - slice six (block13 - cut congenitally, no superior margin); 16 to 18 - slice seven; 19 & 20 - slice eight; 21 & 22 - slice nine; 23 to 26 - slice ten (medial margin).  AE.  Please refer to attached diagram.
(RB/ta  3/7/63)   
   
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr I Carino):
The specimen has been entirelyembedded and examined.   Sections show a spectrum of intraduct proliferative lesions including columnar cell hyperplasia, florid epithelial hyperplasia of the usualtype and multiple papillomas with superimposed florid epithelial hyperplasia.  Fibrous core biopsy tracts with adjacent subacute haemorrhage are identified (block 15, 18 and 20).  The two firm areas identified grossly within slices threeand four correspond to a 5mm sclerosing fibroadenoma with mild epithelial hyperplasia and focal glandular calcification and two adjacent intraduct papillomas, each about 4mm in dimension. One of the papillomas abuts the superficial marginat the junction with the inferior margin (block 7). The fibroadenoma is 4mm clear of the closest (deep) margin. The fibroadenoma lacks the columnar cell hyperplasia seen in the core biopsy specimen (36Q39577- specimen B), the latter morelikely corresponding to one of the benign epithelial proliferative lesions described.  A cluster of multiple intraduct papillomas, many with florid epithelial hyperplasia, is present towards the medialaspect of the specimen across approximately three consecutive slices reaching both the inferior and medial margins (block 22 & 23).  A myoepithelial cell contribution is confirmed with CK5/6 immunostaining demonstrating a benign mosaic pattern of staining. The breast tissue also shows cystic change, apocrine metaplasia, several foci of sclerosing adenosis and a focus of hyperplastic pregnancy like change (block 6).  Numerous benign glandular calcifications are present.Some of the intraduct proliferative lesions show superimposed mild architectural atypia, however, the features fall short of definite atypical ductal hyperplasia.  No in-situ carcinoma or invasive malignancy is seen.  
Selected slides seen with Dr I Hodes.

DIAGNOSIS:  
Left breast hook wire excision:  
-  A spectrum of benign intraduct proliferative lesions with florid epithelial hyperplasia including columnar cell hyperplasia and multiple benign intraduct papillomas with florid epithelial hyperplasia.
- Fibroadenoma (see text).    
 



