SPR no: 38P980770A
MRN no: 38598077
Site_name: QUEANBEYAN DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report38P98077 (38P980770A) BRIDGETT, NATHAN HERBERT

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Colorectal cancer.  Hx Rt colon cancer.  Peritonectomy.
Peritoneum, right colon (redo), small bowel, gallbladder, rectum, omentum,
(please check percentage of signet cell)

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;RECTUM, SMALL BOWEL, OMENTUM, GALLBLADDER, COLON, PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;. A gallbladder, omentum, small bowel, a segment of large bowel with attached fatty tissue, multiple fragments of fibrofatty tissue and an ellipse of skin.  The ellipse of skin measures 45x22x9mm.  The surface is unremarkable.

(1 RS ellipse of skin

Gallbladder:  An intact gallbladder measuring 90mm in length by 35mm in diameter.  The serosal surface is smooth.  The wall is up to 3mm thick, the mucosa is granular green with strips of cholesterolosis.  No stones found within the lumen.

2 cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 3 body and fundus;

Small bowel:  There are three segments of small bowel.  The first measures 335mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm and attached mesentery measuring up to 40mm wide.  The serosal surface shows areas of roughening consistent with adhesion.  On opening, the mucosa shows no discrete lesions.  There is an area of previous anastomosis.  Also noted is a 12mm submucosal nodule.  The nodule has a glistening cut surface.  Also noted within the mesentery are firm areas.  They have a tan to glistening cut surface.  The second segment of small bowel measures 55mm in length with diameter of 30mm.  The attached mesentery is up to 15mm.  The serosa is kinked and shows a pale firm area.  The mucosa is otherwise unremarkable.  On sectioning through the firm area, it has a firm pale white cut surface.  The third segment of small bowel measures 35mm in length with a maximum diameter of 20mm and attached mesentery up to 25mm.  The serosa appears unremarkable.  On opening, the mucosa is unremarkable.

4-9 first segment of small bowel [4 shows serosal adhesions and site of anastomosis, 5&amp;amp;6 are submucosal nodule - 6 is tumour block, 7&amp;amp;8 show firm areas within the mesentery, 9 two possible lymph nodes]; 10 pale firm area from second segment of small bowel;

Large bowel:  A segment of large bowel consistent with rectum with attached mesocolic fat.  It measures 350mm in length with a proximal diameter of 25mm, distal diameter of 30mm.  The attached mesocolic fat is up to 100mm.  On the serosal surface, multiple nodular areas ?tumour deposits are seen.  On opening the mucosa, no discrete mass lesion is identified. Proximal margin inked blue, distal green.  On the mesocolic fat there are multiple tan firm areas.  Also noted are firm areas within the submucosa with a glistening cut surface.  There is also attached peritoneum 30x10mm.  There are multiple firm areas noted on the peritoneum.  On sectioning, the areas are glistening to pale white in appearance.

11 margins; 12 firm area within submucosa; 13 nodules on serosa; 14 pale firm area in the mesocolic fat; 15 firm areas noted on peritoneum; 16 firm area at anterior peritoneal reflection;

Omentum:  Omentum measuring 230x230x20mm.  There are scattered firm areas with a glistening cut surface (tumour deposit).

17&amp;amp;18 RS omentum;

The separate piece of fibrofatty tissue consistent with peritoneum, altogether measuring 200x130x40mm.  Scattered within the pieces are firm areas consistent with tumour deposit.
Within some of the pieces is attached overlying skin.

19&amp;amp;20 RS from separate pieces of fibrofatty tissue with attached skin).  RS (M-20/MC/nh)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr K Sicks)
Histology shows  both segments of small bowel and a segment of colon to contain deposits of metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma which lie within the muscularis propria and serosa of the specimens.  Multiple further deposits of mucinous adenocarcinoma are also seen within the mesentery and mesocolon.  The tumour deposits are characterised by abundant extracellular mucin with numerous small nests and acini formed by cells with mild to moderate nuclear atypia and features reminiscent of goblet cell carcinoid. No single signet ring cells are seen. Four small mesenteric and mesocolic lymph nodes are identified which do not contain deposits of tumour.  Immunostains show positivity for CK20 and synpatophysin, CK7 and chromogranin are negative. However Ki67 is high at &amp;gt;80% which is way beyond that acceptable for goblet cell carcinoid and therefore the current deposits are best considered as moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma. Some pieces of skin with underlying scarred dermis and associated fat are also present which are not infiltrated by malignancy. The gallbladder shows mild cholesterolosis of the mucosa with no serosal deposits present.  The cystic duct lymph node is not involved by malignancy.

DIAGNOSIS:
RECTUM, SMALL BOWEL, OMENTUM, GALLBLADDER, COLON, PERITONEAL DISEASE-
-MULTIPLE DEPOSITS OF METASTATIC MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA.

25/10/2066 ank
