SPR no: 75F682008P
MRN no: 752682
Site_name: WESTERN HEALTH - BACCHUS MARSH
Facility_id: MR
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Histopathology of uterus/ovaries/tubes.
Only N endometrium sampled for study (posterior lower segment) KT.  Grade 2 endometrial cancer on curettings.  Pelvic lymph nodes HP.  Peritoneal washings cytology.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries, weighing 68g in total.

The uterus with attached cervix measures 65 x 45 x 35mm and has a smooth and shiny serosal surface.

The endometrium shows multiple nodules varying from 2 to 4mm in maximum dimension within anterior and posterior uterine cavity but no definite gross tumour is seen.  The myometrium is 15mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium contains a fibroid nodule measuring 7mm across (block 13). The ectocervix measures 40 x 30mm and appears slightly tan around os but is otherwise unremarkable. On sectioning the endometrium is 2mm in maximum thickness.

The right fallopian tube/fimbria is 60mm in length and 6mm in maximum diameter and appears unremarkable.  The right ovary measures 30 x 15 x 8mm and has unremarkable cut surface.  The left fallopian tube/fimbria measures 55mm in length and 6mm in diameter and appears unremarkable.  The left ovary measures 25 x 18 x 12mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.

The anterior resection margin is inked blue and posterior inked black.

Blocks: 1 to 3 - full LS anterior body and cervix towards right; 4 to 6 - full LS anterior body and  cervix towards left; 7 to 9 - rest of right anterior endometrium as per diagram; 10 to 16 - rest of left anterior endometrium as per diagram; 17 to 19 - full LS of posterior body and cervix towards left; 20 to 22 - full LS of posterior body and cervix towards right; 23 to 26 - rest of left posterior endometrium as per diagram; 27 to 30 - rest of right posterior endometrium as per diagram; 31 - RS right fallopian tube including fimbria and three TS; 32 &amp;amp; 33 - RS right ovary; 34 - RS left fallopian tube including fimbria and three TS; 35 &amp;amp; 36 - RS left ovary.  RS in 36 blocks.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left obturator&amp;quot;, consists of an irregular piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 15 x 12 x 5mm containing a lymph node, 10 x 8 x 5mm.  TAE 1 block.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left external iliac&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node, 14 x 10 x 4mm with small amount of attached fat, sectioned into four pieces.   AE 1 block.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right obtruotor (sic)&amp;quot;, consists of an irregular piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 30 x 20 x 10mm, containing a lymph node 15 x 10 x 5mm.
Blocks: 1 - lymph node sectioned into four pieces; 2 - rest of fibrofatty tissue.  AE 2 blocks.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right external iliac&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node with a slight tinge of blue measuring 14 x 7 x 4mm.  Sectioned into four.  AE 1 block.

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omental biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of a segment of omental fat measuring 65 x 35 x 10mm.  Fat partially appears slightly firm and is partially congested.  No lymph node or gross lesion is seen.
Blocks: 1 to 3 -  RS of the firm areas.  RS 3 blocks.  (TO:LN; LN/ta 19/12/66)


MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr S Ceranski)
A.  Sections of cervix show no significant abnormality. The endometrium appears inactive with focal atypical tubal metaplasia (A26). There is a leiomyoma. The right and left ovaries and fallopian tubes show no significant abnormality. There are no atypical features. There is no evidence of residual in situ or invasive malignancy.
B.  Sections of the left obturator lymph node show no evidence of malignancy (0/1).
C.  Sections of the left external iliac lymph node show no evidence of malignancy (0/1).
D.  Sections of the right obturator lymph node show a focus of endosalpingiosis and dystrophic calcification. There is no evidence of malignancy (0/1).
E.  Sections of the right external iliac lymph node show no evidence of malignancy (0/1).
F.  Sections show fragments of mature fibroadipose tissue consistent with omentum. There is focal mesothelial cell proliferation. There are no atypical features. There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes: Inactive endometrium with focus of atypical tubal metaplasia. No diagnostic evidence of residual in situ or invasive carcinoma.

B.  Left obturator lymph node: No evidence of malignancy (0/1).

C.  Left external iliac lymph node: No evidence of malignancy (0/1).

D.  Right obturator lymph node: Focal endosalpingiosis and dystrophic calcification. No evidence of malignancy (0/1).

E.  Right external iliac lymph node: No evidence of malignancy (0/1).

F.  Omental biopsy: No evidence of malignancy.
