Episode No:  72K687714H
723687.SDM

DELORME, DELMAR 
Lab No:  72K68771
Willborough
ARARAT  5168
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  11/12/1995
Sex:  M
Collected: 05/12/2012 at 13:59
Location:  MOLECULAR DIAGNOSTIC ONCOLOGY-MERSEY COMMUNITY HOSPITAL
DR ERIK RICO BELLMORE
Distribution:   FILE-COPY

CLINICAL:
Whipple's resection + gallbladder. Pancreatic head mass, ? ca. + portal vein involvement.  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy.  Increased CA 19.9.
Additional: 
Further history from Dr Jackso:  
-  Nodes negative in previous selective intraabdominal lymph node dissection at TOCUMWAL Hospital.
-  Dr Cutri attended the ONCOLOGY (GYNAE) Pathology department to assist in identifying and orienting the resection margins including the portal vein wall margin.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Whipple's", consists of duodenum, 155mm in length ,stomach including pylorus 22mm in length, pancreatic head, 28mm (medial to lateral) x 42mm (inferior to superior) x 50mm (superficial to deep) and stented extrapancreatic common bile duct , 45mm in length and 7mm in maximum diameter. The specimen includes attached gallbladder 95mm x 45mm, greater omentum 80 x 30 x 15mm and lesser omentum 25 x 25 x 10mm. There are two separate pieces of presumed greater omental tissue 360 and 80mm in maximum dimension with an area of grey discolouration 40 x 35 x 10mm identified on one surface. The margins are inked as follows: pancreatic neck resection margin black,  periuncinate soft tissue (SMA) resection margin green, the portal vein bed resection margin blue (including the portal vein wall identified by Dr Fechtner),  posterior retroperitoneal margin orange, anterior pancreatic surface purple and the inferior pancreaticsurface yellow.
 The cut surface reveals an ill-defined grey area (? tumour) with loss of lobular architecture in the anterior superior head of pancreas measuring approximately 25 x 22 x 12mm.  There is a firm yellow area within the adjacent fat (? fat necrosis ? tumour extension) measuring 12 x 12 x 8mm.  The pancreatic duct is not identified.   The common bile duct is patent via a stent which extends its full length to the opening at the ampulla of Vater, the latter with an unremarkable mucosal surface. The mucosa of the duodenum and stomach is unremarkable. The serosa of the gallbladder appears mildly haemorrhagic.  The maximum thickness of the wall is 3mm.  No gallstones are identified.  One large lymph node 15mm is identified in the attached greater omental fat and multiple small lymph nodes are identified around the common bile duct margin.  
Block 1 - common bile duct margin; 2 - bowel and stomach resection margins; 3-9 - TS of pancreas to small bowel; 10-14 - full face of pancreas from inferior to superior; 15-20 - TS superior end of pancreas (paired blocks 16/17, 18/19); 21 & 22 - large greater omentum lymph node; 23 - lymph nodes around common bile duct; 24 - ? lesser omentum lymph nodes; 25 - ? greater omentum lymph node; 26 -representative gallbladder; 27-30 - representative greater omentum. Please refer to attached diagram.  (TO: CV;CT/ec 2.8.62) 
 MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr S Matro) 
Sections show a moderately to poorly differentiated invasive adenocarcinoma centred within pancreatic head.  The tumour is predominantly  composed of small to large round to angulated glands with moderate to focally marked nuclear pleomorphism, occasionally  prominent nucleoli, eosinophilic cytoplasm, foci of goblet cell differentiation and patchy intraluminalnecrosis.  There are also numerous foci of single cell infiltration. 
Extent
The tumour has an infiltrative margin and focally extends into the wall of the stented intrapancreatic common bile duct, infiltrates around the pancreatic duct and extensively infiltrates the wall of the duodenum reachingnon-ulcerated mucosa.  The tumour invades fibrous tissue in proximity to the portal vein wall but no mural smooth muscle invasion is seen. There is also extrapancreatic invasion into adipose tissue posteriorly (perineural spread) and into adipose tissue between the duodenal wall and pancreas superiorly (contiguous invasion and perineural spread).  Extensiveperineural invasion is present both within the confines of tumour and as outlying foci.  A focus of mural vascular invasion is present and foci suspicious for lymphovascular invasion present, including within the duodenal wall.  Retractionartefact around tumour does make assessment of lymphovascular invasion difficult. 
Tumour response to therapy:
Although there is some fibrosis around tumour, there is extensive residual tumour and no significant tumour necrosis.  The tumour regression grade is therefore 3 (poor response).
Margins
The pancreatic neck margin is 0.2mm from tumour, the portal vein margin <0.1mm from tumour (with perineural invasion 0.2mm from this margin) while the portal vein wall resection margins is at least 0.5mm from tumour (some sectioning disruption of this margin limits assessment). The periuncinate margin is >5.5mm clear and the posterior retroperitoneal surface is 4mm clear.  The extrahepatic common bile duct, duodenal and gastric margins are all well clear.
 
Other pathology
The pancreas shows associated changes of chronic pancreatitis with ductolobular atrophy, fibrosis and chronic inflammation.  Away from the tumour there is mucinous and goblet cell metaplasia of ductules and focal mucinous metaplasia with micropapillae formation in a larger duct (PanIN/L 1B).  Changes consistent with previous surgery are present with suture/foreign body granulomas with the greater omentum and serosa of stomach plus chronic inflammation and fat necrosis with admixed giant cells within the peripancreatic fat.  The area of grey discolouration described in the greater omentum comprises fibrosis and suture granulomas.  Within adipose tissue posterior to the pancreas, there is also an abscess containing filamentous material suggestive of Actinomyces organisms.  The common bile duct shows mucosal erosions, mural acute inflammation and reactive epithelial atypia consistent with stent-related injury.  The gallbladder shows mucosal haemorrhage and mild chronic cholecystitis. A synoptic report for pancreatic exocrine carcinoma follows:

SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR PANCREATIC CARCINOMA 

Type of Specimen:
Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipples), partial pancreatectomy.
Tumour:
Tumour location:  		Pancreatic head
Histological type: 		Ductal adenocarcinoma 
Histological grade:  		Grade 2/4 (TNM classification), moderately 	differentiated (50-95% of tumour composed of glands) 
		
		Grade 3/3 (WHO classification) (some single cell 	infiltration by pleomorphic cells).
Comment:
Grading may not be reliable post therapy.
Extra pancreatic extension:	Present
-  Extensive infiltration of duodenum into non-ulcerated mucosa (eg. Block 18)
-  Invasion into extrapancreatic adipose tissue between duodenum
   and pancreassuperiorly (Blocks 10,15,20) (contiguous and perineural spread) 
-  Invasion into extrapancreatic adipose tissue posteriorly (perineural spread) (Block13L1)
Small vessel (capillary/lymphatic) invasion:	Suspicious (Blocks 13,19) (can't exclude 						retraction artefact)
Large vessel (vein/artery) invasion:		Mural invasion present but no 							intravascular tumour seen (Block15)
Perineural invasion:				Present, extensive (eg Blocks 13L3, 20)
Margins:
-  Pancreatic neck:		0.2mm (Block 12 F.F)
-  Portal vein bed:	<0.1mm (Block 13 L2) (perineural invasion 0.2mm from margin)
-  Portal vein wall:                   At least 0.5mm clear (Block13, 13L2)(see text above)
-  Periuncinate soft tissue:	>5.5mm
   (SMA bed)
-  Posterior retroperitoneal:     4mm (Block13 L1)
-  Bile duct:			Well clear
-  Gastric:			Well clear
-Duodenal:			Well clear
Response to Therapy: 	Poor (tumour regression grade 3/3 -poor response to 				therapy)
Lymph nodes: Nine (9) negative regional lymph nodes: (1 anterior pancreatic, 3 posterior pancreatic, 3 extrapancreatic common bile duct, 2 greater omental).

Associated Pathology:
Pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PANIN-2 block 16).
Pathological staging:	pTNM, AJCC 7th ed.
ypT3				Tumour extends beyond pancreas.
pN0				No regional lymph node metastasis.
pM0				No distant metastasis.
Additional finding:
-  Chronic pancreatitis with ductolobular atrophy.
-  Changes consistent with previous surgery with fat necrosis andchronic inflammation in peripancreatic fat as well as greater omental and serosal suture/ foreign body granulomas.
-  Abscess containing filamentous material suggestive of Actinomyces species with surrounding fat necrosis within adipose tissue posterior to pancreas (Block 14).
-  Mucosal haemorrhage and mild chronic cholecystitis (no gallstones seen).
SUMMARY:
Tumour type:			Ductal adenocarcinoma.
Tumour grade:		Moderate to poor (seecomment).
Tumour location:		Pancreatic head.
Lymph nodes:			Nine (9) negative regional lymph nodes.
Response to therapy:		Poor.
Stage:				ypT3 N0 M0.
Margins very close:		See text. 

