Episode No:  27Z432889O
2794328.VYO

ZELL, ORLANDO 
Lab No:  27Z43288
Park Sierra
BLAYNEY  VIC  3808
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  3/11/1999
Sex:  F
Collected: 28/11/2013 at 18:29
Location:  ACUTE CARE WARD-CASTLEMAINE HEALTH
DR WYATT MONTE ARMEN
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Peritonectomy.   Newly diagnosed rectal ca.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right ovary and fallopian tube" consists of an ovarian mass measuring 220 x 220 x 100mm, weighing 2,364g.  The outer surface is lobular with multiple defects through which mucinous material isprotruding through.  No obvious fallopian tube is identified.  On the cut surface an ovary is multicystic, filled with mucinous material.  
Blocks: 1 to 15 - representative sectionsof the neoplasm (block 14 & 15 - possibly containing fallopian tube).   
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus + fallopian tube, L ovary and cervix" consists of a uterus with cervix, the left ovary and fallopian tube.  The entire specimen weighs 160g.  The uterus measures 90 x 60 x 80mm.  The ectocervix measures 40 x 30mm.  Theleft fallopian tube measures 70mm in length with a diameter of 8mm, left ovary measures 30 x 30 x 12mm.  The left ovary is adherent to the serosal surface of the uterus.  The area of the right isthmus is rough and ragged.  The anterior cervical surface is inked blue, posterior black.  The endometrium measures 1mm in thickness and the myometrium measures up to 25mm in thickness.  An intramural fibroid measuring 10mmin maximal extent is noted at the right side of the uterus.  The cut surface is pale and firm.  No other intramural lesion is identified.  The cut surface of the left ovary is unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - (paired blocks) section of anterior cervix and lower body; 3 & 4 - (paired blocks) posterior cervix and body; 5 & 6 - representative sections endometrium; 7 - fibroid; 8 & 9 - left ovary and fallopian tube adherent to serosal surface of the uterus bisected; 10 - further sections of left fallopian tube; 11 to 14 - sections of the endometrium.  Multiple pieces in 14 blocks.
C.  Specimen labelled "Appendix" consists of an appendix measuring 65 x 40 x 30mm.  A small amount of mesoappendix measuring 30 x 12 x 10mm is identified. The serosal surface is dull and dusky.  No perforation is identified.  The base of the appendix contains a staple margin, this has been removed and inked blue.  Specimen TS.  Lumen of the appendix is relatively smooth, filled with pale mucinous material.  No solid area is identified.  
Blocks: 1 to 25 - TS appendix from tip to base. AE except stapled line.  
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Spleen" consists of a spleen weighing 52g and measuring 75 x 40 x 50mm.  The capsular surface is covered by a pale mucinous deposit.  No intrasplenic lesion is identified.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - representative sections.  
 
E.  Specimen labelled "Right peritoneum of diaphragm" consists of multiple fragments of peritoneum measuring in aggregate 55 x 45 x 25mm.  Pale mucinous tumour deposits are noted.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - representative sections.  
 
F.  Specimen labelled "Left peritoneum of diaphragm" consists of multiple fragments of peritoneum measuringin aggregate 45 x 40 x 20mm.  Pale mucinous tumour deposits are noted.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - representative sections.  
    
G.  Specimen labelled "Right lower quadrant peritoneum" consists of a piece of peritoneum measuring 40 x 35 x 25mm.  The outer surface is dull and dusky.  No obvious mucinous deposits are noted. 
Blocks: 1 to 3 - representative sections. 
  
H.  Specimen labelled "Left lower quadrant peritoneum" consists of multiple fragments of peritoneal tissue measuring in aggregate 45 x 35 x 30mm.  The peritoneal surface is dull but no obvious mucinous deposits are identified.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - representative sections.  
 
I.  Specimen labelled "Peritoneum left of liver" consists of multiple fragments of peritoneum measuring in aggregate 40 x 40 x 10mm.  Mucinous tumour deposits are noted.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - representative sections.
 
J.  Specimen labelled "Peritoneum" consists of multiple fragments of peritoneum measuring in aggregate 45 x 40 x 30mm.  Mucinous tumour deposits are noted.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - representative sections.
K.  Specimen labelled "Biopsy of omentum" consists of multiple fragments of omental tissue measuring in aggregate 75 x 80 x 20mm.  Palemucinous tumour deposits are noted.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - representative sections. 
L.  Specimen labelled "Leftabdominal wall" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 35 x 20 x 15mm.  The serosal surface is dull but no obvious mucinous tumour deposits are identified.  AE 3 blocks.   (FN/ta 1/1/63) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr H Moustafa):
A. The right ovarian parenchyma shows diffuse involvement by a well differentiated mucinous tumour. The mucinous tumour displays positive staining with CDX2 and CK 20, and negative staining with CK 7.This immunohistochemical profile is consistent with a tumour with an intestinal phenotype. Section of the right fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality.
B. The endometrium, ectocervix and endocervix show surface involvement by a well differentiated mucinous tumour with features similar to those seen in the appendix and right ovary. The myometrium contains a benign leiomyoma. The left fallopian tube shows a 1mm focus of carcinoma in situ/high grade dysplasia (Block B9). The left ovary shows no significant abnormality.
C. The appendix has been totally blocked and examined in its entirety. The appendix shows close to total replacement of its normal mucosa with a mostly flat and focally undulating mucinous epithelial proliferation. The mucinous epithelium shows mild cytological atypia and mitoses are not prominent. The wall of the appendix displays an altered morphology in areas and appears fibrotic and hyalinised. There is no discernible lamina propria. Diverticula of the tumour areseen focally but there is no evidence of rupture or invasion. The appearance is consistent with a low grade appendiceal mucinous neoplasm. Normal looking colonic mucosa is seen at the resection margin of the specimen.
D. Sections show the presence of extracellular mucin expanding the visceral peritoneum of the spleen. The appearance is consistent with pseudomyxoma peritonei although no epithelial component is identified. The splenic parenchyma shows no significant abnormality. 
E to L. Sections of peritoneum and omentum shows pools of extracellular mucin associated with varying degrees of mesothelial hyperplasia, vascular proliferation and a moderate mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate. The appearance is consistent with pseudomyxoma peritonei although no epithelial component is identified.
COMMENT: In women with pseudomyxoma peritonei and concomitant ovarian and appendiceal tumours, recent immunohistochemical, molecular and genetic evidence supports an origin in the appendix in most cases, and secondary involvement of the peritoneum and ovaries (1). 
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right ovary and fallopian tube
- WELL DIFFERENTIATED MUCINOUS TUMOUR INVOLVING OVARY (SEE COMMENT)
B. Uterus, cervix, left fallopian tube and ovary
- WELL DIFFERENTIATED MUCINOUS TUMOUR INVOLVING THE SURFACES OF THE ENDOMETRIUM, ENDOCERVIX AND ECTOCERVIX (SEE COMMENT)
- A 1MM FOCUS OF CARCINOMA IN SITU IN LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE
- BENIGN LEIOMYOMA
C. Appendix
- LOW GRADE APPENDICEAL MUCINOUS NEOPLASM (SEE COMMENT)
D to L. Spleen, right peritoneum of diaphragm, left peritoneum of diaphragm, right lower quadrant peritoneum, left lower quadrant peritoneum, peritoneum left of liver, peritoneum, omentum, left abdominal wall
- PSEUDOMYXOMA PERITONEI (SEE COMMENT)
- NO EPITHELIAL COMPONENT IDENTIFIED
Reference: 
(1) Misdraji J. Appendiceal Mucinous neoplasms: Controversial Issues. Arch Pathol Lab Med. Vol 134, June 2010: 864 - 870.

