
Episode No:  44V940006E
448940.BBQ

MOSES, ANNETT MARX 
Lab No:  44V94000
Chaves
ANDERGROVE  South Australia  0862
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  4/11/1979
Sex:  F
Collected: 16/12/2063 at :
Location:  West-WARWICK HOSPITAL
DR ISADORA JEMIMA KWIAT
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

CLINICAL:
Interval debulking after neoadjuvant chemotherapy.  Ovarian cancer.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of a piece of omental cake measuring 190 x 70 x 70mm.  The cut surface is solidtan and fibrotic.  Multiple small white and firm nodules are identified.  Representative sections in 4 blocks.
B.  Specimen labelled "Left IP ligament", consists of a piece of fibrous tissue 15 x 5 x 2mm.  AE 1 block. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Left obturator and ovary", consists of atiny ovary with attached fimbria measuring 30 x 15 x 15mm.  Macroscopically the cut surface of the ovary is unremarkable.  AE 4 blocks.
D.  Specimen labelled "Right tubeand ovary", consists of a nodular piece of tissue. The ovary and the fallopian tube are not macroscopically identified. The piece of tissue measures 40 x 30 x 15mm and has cystic appearance.  The cut surface is multicystic and filled with mucinous material.  AE 6 blocks.
E.  Specimen labelled "Right upper quadrant tumour", consists of an irregular piece of nodular tissue with overlying skin measuring 25 x 20 x 10mm.  On sectioning there is a fibrotic ill defined area.  Specimen AE in 4 blocks.  (TO/ec   17.12.63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr M Staal & registrar Dr M Headman):
A.  Sections show serous adenocarcinoma with prominent psammomatous calcification.  Onelymph node is also identified which contain metastatic adenocarcinoma.
B.  Sections show fibrous tissue with no significant abnormality. There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Sections show small deposits of serous adenocarcinoma on the serosal surface of the ovary and fallopian tube plus adjacent fibroadipose tissue.
D.  Sections show numerous deposits of serous adenocarcinoma within ovary parenchyma, fallopian tube wall and adjacent fibroadipose tissue.  Ectopic adrenal gland is also present.
E.  Sections of skin show a subcutaneous deposit of serous adenocarcinoma.  The tumour abuts the deep margin. 
 
DIAGNOSIS:
A - E.  Right and left ovaries and fallopian tubes, omentum, left IPligament and right upper outer quadrant:
- Serous adenocarcinoma
- Involvement of omentum, right and left ovaries and fallopian tubes, right upper quadrant.
- Positive omental lymph node

