Episode No:  39W491364K
398491.HRL

HEININGER, CRISTAL-GEORGE 
Lab No:  39W49136
Wricklemarsh
SANDY BEACH  Western Australia  6467
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  10/8/2001
Sex:  F
Collected: 14/10/2013 at 21:22
Location:  OPERATING THEATRES-MANILLA HEALTH SERVICE
DR ELVIN ARLIE MCKELVEY
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

CLINICAL:
Endobronchial tumour right lower lobe.  Right lower and middle lobectomy. 
Right lower lobe, middle lobe, R paratracheal lymph node, R hilar lymph node, R para-oesophageal lymph node, subcarinal lymph node. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "R middle lobe", consists of a lobe of lung measuring 75 x 70 x 50mm and weighing 56g when fixed.  There are two staple resection margins in place measuring 25 and 75mm.  The stapled margins are removed and the tissue beneath them is inked black.  At the bronchial resection margin there is a margin which appears to be the proximal margin and a further false margin which appears to be the bronchial margin which would attach to a lower lobe.  The proximal resection margin is inked green while the false resection margin appearing to continue to the lower lobe bronchus is inked yellow and the remainder of the hilar margin is inked blue.  No suspicious areas are identified within the specimen.  Blocks 1 & 2- entire bronchial resection margin embedded; 3 - vascular resection margin; 4 -one hilar lymph node serially sectioned, AE; 5 - ? further hilar lymph nodes; 6 - bronchus to lung; 7 & 8 - representative lung. 
B.  Specimen labelled "R lower lobe", consists of a lobe of lung measuring 110 x 95 x 70mm and weighing 259g when fixed.  At the bronchial resection margin a fleshy tan tumour is identified measuring 30 x 16 x 15mm.  The tumour appears to come close to the bronchial resection. The tumour appears to come close to the bronchial resection margins. The tumour appears to be obstructing the bronchus.  Distal to the tumour there are large amounts of purulent material seen within the distal airways along with areas of haemorrhage.  Some of the airways distal to the tumour appeardilated.  There are no other suspicious areas identified in the lung tissue. 
Blocks 1-3 - tumour to resection margin; 4 - vascular resection margin; 5 - hilar lymph nodes; 6 - ? one lymph node bisected; 7-9 - representative lung tissue distal to tumour.  
C.  Specimen labelled "R paratracheal LN", consists of two pieces of tan and fatty tissue 5 and 7mm. AE 1 block. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Para-oesophageal LN", consists of a piece of tan tissue 17mm. AE 1 block. 
E.  Specimen labelled "L hilarLN", consists of a piece of tan and fatty tissue 20mm. AE 1 block. 
F.  Specimen labelled "Subcarinal LN", consists of a piece of tan and partly fatty tissue 30 x 15 x 12mm.  Serially sectioned, AE 2 blocks.   (TO: BF;AK/ec 17.12.63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr K Dieckman) 
A.   The right middle lobe shows no evidence of tumour. The lung shows prominent interstitial fibrosis and alveolar macrophages, and the two (2) hilar lymph nodes identified appear normal. 
B.   Sections show a 30mm carcinoid (neuroendocrinetumour, grade 1) of the right major bronchus. The tumour obstructs the bronchus and infiltrates the bronchial wall and surrounding lung. The carcinoid is 1.5mm clear of the bronchial resection margin. The tumour shows positive staining with neuroendocrine markers (CD56, Chrom A, Synaptophysin) and the Ki67 is less than 1%.  There is no necrosis and the mitotic rate is 1/10 HPF (ie no atypical features). The vascular resection margin shows no abnormality.
The three (3) hilar lymph nodes identified are negative for tumour. The lung parenchyma shows bronchiectasiswith purulent bronchitis and organising pneumonia.  There is also prominent thickening of alveolar walls. 
C.  The three (3) lymph nodes identified are negative for tumour.
D.  The two (2) lymph nodes identified are negative for tumour.
E.   The single lymph node is negative for tumour. 
F.   The four (4) lymph nodes identified are negative for tumour. (ec) 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.   Right middle lobe:
-No tumour identified, negative hilar lymph nodes (x2).
B.   Right lower lobe:
-     Bronchogenic carcinoid (neuroendocrine tumour grade 1), size 30mm, 1.5mm
      clear of bronchial resection margin (RLL) plus right middle lobe  bronchus. 
-     Hilar lymph nodes (x3) negative for tumour. 
-     Bronchiectasis, organising pneumonia. 
C.   Right paratracheal lymph node:
-      Lymph nodes (x3) negative for tumour. 
D.   Para-oesophageal lymph node:
-      Lymph nodes (x2) negative for tumour.
E.   Left hilar lymph node:
-     Lymph node (x1) negative for tumour. 
F.   Subcarinal lymph node:
-     Lymph nodes (x4) negative for tumour. 
 

