Episode No:  82X025192B
829025.EXG

SHIVERDECKER, TOM ADNYAMATHANHA 
Lab No:  82X02519
Hydrangea
STAWELL  Australian Capital Territory  4345
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  30/1/1988
Sex:  M
Collected: 24/10/2013 at 11:29
Location:  RECOVERY-EMMAVILLE - VEGETABLE CREEK RESIDENTIAL AGED CARE
DR DONALD LONNY SINON
Distribution:   FILE-COPY

CLINICAL:
SCC right tongue.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled"Lateral margin" consists of a piece of mucosa 17 x 3 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.
B.  Specimen labelled "Deep margin" consists of dark red tissue 6 x 5 x 2mm.  AE 1 block.
C.  Specimen labelled "Posteriormargin" consists of a piece of mucosa 8 x 3 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.
D.  Specimen labelled "Medial margin" consists of a piece of mucosa 8 x 8 x 3mm.  Specimen is bisected in half and AE 1 block.
E.  Specimen labelled "Right subtotal glossectomy long stitch anterior, short stitch superior" consists of a right hemi glossectomy with two sutures for the orientation marking short suture superior margin,long suture anterior margin.  The specimen measures 70mm (anterior to posterior), 30mm (medial to lateral) and 30mm (superior to inferior).  In the lateral aspect of the specimen there is an ulcerated lesion 30 x 20mm.  It is located 12mm from the inferomedial margin and 25mm from the superomedial margin, 30mm from anterior margin, 20mm from posterior margin.  The superomedial margin is inked blue.  The inferomedial margin is inked black.  The posterior margin is inked green.  Specimen is serially sectioned from anterior to posterior into 13 slices.  Slice number one most anterior slice.  Slice number thirteen most posterior slice.  On slices five to twelve there is a well defined solid white tumour with areas of ulceration and haemorrhage.  The tumour is 5mm to the deep margin (medial margin) seen in slice number 8.  Representative sections are taken according to the attached diagram.
Blocks:  1 - sections of most proximalmargin; 2 - slice three; 3 - slice five; 4 and 5 - slice seven; 6 & 7 - slice eight; 8 & 9 - slice ten; 10 - three representative sections of most posterior margin (slice number thirteen).
F.  Specimen labelled "Neck dissection right levels 1 to 3" consists of an irregular piece of fatty tissue containing a salivary gland measuring 140 x 80 x 30mm.  Several lymph nodes are identified ranging from 5 to 15mm.
Blocks:  1 to 10 - lymph nodes.  (TO: GY; CA/rt 27.12.63)
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
From A to D, no tumour seen.
Reported by Dr W Posis at 12:56pm on the 24/10/2013.
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr W Cathey)
A.  Sections are of squamous mucosa including underlying skeletal muscle. There is no evidence of malignancy.
B.  Sections show fragments of skeletal muscle with some adjacent mature adipose tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
C.  Sections are of squamous mucosa includingsome minor salivary glands and skeletal muscle. There is no evidence of malignancy.
D.  Sections are of squamous mucosa including some underlying skeletal muscle. The epithelium shows patchy parakeratosis and reactive appearing hyperplasia. There is no evidence of malignancy.
E.  Sections of the right tongue tumour show a moderately to well differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. The carcinoma consists of infiltrative nests and sheets of malignantsquamous epithelium and infiltrates skeletal muscle up to maximum thickness of 16mm. There is focal perineural invasion. There is a prominent focus of lymphovascular space invasion, consisting of an organising thrombus containing admixedatypical keratinised epithelial cells, very close to the medial margin (0.25mm). 
The margins are as follows:
Medial margin: 0.25mm (within distended lymphovascular space).
Anterior margin: 5.5mm.
Posterior margin: 5.5mm.
The non-neoplastic squamous mucosa shows variably prominent reactive type hyperplasia, patchy parakeratosis and scattered entrapped aggregates of bacteria.
F.  Sections of the twenty three lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/23). The salivary gland tissue shows patchy lymphoid hyperplasia. Some of the sampled lymph nodes show marked perinodal fibrosis with expanded, fibrotic lymph node capsules and prominentlymphoid hyperplasia. Multiple levels of these lymph nodes were examined and the overall features are favoured to be reactive in nature. 
Representative slides seen with Dr SANTO NICKENS.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Lateral margin: No evidence of malignancy. 

B.  Deep margin: No evidence of malignancy.

C.  Posterior margin: No evidence of malignancy.

D.  Medial margin: No evidence of malignancy.

E.  Right subtotal glossectomy: 
Squamous cell carcinoma.
Perineural and lymphovascular space invasion are present.
A focus of carcinoma within a distended lymphovascular space extends very close to the medial margin (0.25mm).  

F.  Right level 1 to 3 neck dissection: No evidence of malignancy in twenty-three lymph nodes (0/23). 






