
 407156.GMB
MERANCIO, DESTINY
40T15624

Last edited : 1/12/2063		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Previous right retroperitoneal dissection for recurrent Ca.  Now new liver lesion.  I think it is more likely recurrent disease pushing into liver.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Liver" consists of a piece of liver tissue 105 x 60 x 50mm.  Specimen is serially sliced.  There is a 25 x 14 x 7mm solid mass at the capsular surface 6mm from the closest hepatic resection margin.  No intraparenchymal lesions are identified.
Blocks:  1 to 4 - the capsular mass and hepatic resection margin (1 and 2 are paired, 90% of the mass is blocked); 5 - liver away from the mass.
B.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of a gallbladder 55mm in length and up to 85mm in circumference.  The serosal surface is smooth and congested.  The hepatic bed is inked blue.  The mucosa is green and granular.  No gallstonesare seen.  No solid or cystic masses are identified.
Blocks:  1 - cystic duct margin; 2 - TS neck and TS body; 3 - LS fundus.
(TO: GM; KB/rt 30.12.63)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr K Tara):
A.  Sections show liver with capsule and overlying fibrofat.  Within the fibrofat there is a circumscribed deposit of tumour.  This consists of groups and trabeculae of cells with generally large nuclei, a single prominent nucleolus and abundant pale or finely granular eosinophilic cytoplasm.  There is moderate nuclear pleomorphism.  No definite lymphovascular invasion is seen.  No mitoses are identified.    The appearances are consistent with a metastatic Xp11 translocation renal carcinoma, as previously reported.  
All resection margins are free of tumour.  The tumour does not involve the liver capsule or the underlying parenchyma.  The liver parenchyma does not show any significant abnormality.
B.  Sections show gallbladder wall.  No abnormality is seen.  No tumour is seen.  
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Liver tissue:  Metastatic Xp11 translocation renal carcinoma in adherent fibrofat.  
B.  Gallbladder:  No abnormality is seen.   
  

