Episode No:  32Y455514S
3294555.EKS

CANTV, ROLANDA 
Lab No:  32Y45551
S Lowe
GAWLER  South Australia  3066
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  18/6/2002
Sex:  F
Collected: 07/03/2013 at 14:47
Location:  IMVS - BEAUFORT & SKIPTON HEALTH SERVICES - BEAUFORT CAMPUS
DR DARIN BROOKS HORACE-BUTTIMER
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Rt breast Ca.  Incompletely excised.   For completion mastectomy and sentinel node biopsy.  Axillary sentinel node clearly shown on lymphoscintigraphy.  Right breast cancer - previous WLE for DCIS in LOQ showed small focus of IDC.  DCIS at margins.  Skin in sparing mastectomy + sentinel node biopsy.  (sent separately).  Short stitch superior, long lateral.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right sentinel node" consists of a lymph node with fatty tissue 25 x 25 x 10mm.  Two imprints taken.  AE 2 blocks.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
No malignant cells identified.  
Results to Dr MICKEY-WOLFENSPERGER by Dr J Golla at 16.00 on 7/3/13.
B.  Specimen labelled "Right breast stitch long lateral, short superior" consists of a skin bearing mastectomy 150mm (medial to lateral) x 120mm (inferior to superior) x 16mm (superficial to deep).  Two sutures are in situ are designated.  There is an overlying ellipse of skin 65 x 30mm on its lateral aspect, this includes a surgical scar 135mm.  There is an unremarkable nipple areola complex 30 x 30mm.  The superficial margin is inked blue and the deep margin is inked black.  Deep to the surgical scar identified there is evidence of an old cavity which has almost healed.  There is an area over the deep margin where this cavity appears to open over an area 35 x 25mm.  The cut surface reveals no further suspicious areas.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - lateral end of capsule; 3 - deep aspect of old capsule; 4 - superior capsule; 5 - inferior capsule; 6 & 7 - further deep capsule; 8 & 9 - medial aspect of capsule; 10 & 11 - medial aspect of capsule; 12 - nipple and tissue deep to nipple; 13 & 14- representative inner upper quadrant; 15 & 16 - representative inner lower quadrant; 17 & 18 - representative outer upper quadrant; 19 & 20 - representative lower outer quadrant.  Please refer to attached diagram.  (TO: NG; LV/ta  10/5/63) 
(Case handed over by KULIN to EL on 16.4.63)
  
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr S Shugart): 
A.  The sentinel lymph node contains a single tubular structure, less than 0.1mm in dimension, within the subcapsular sinus.  The tubule is lined by single layer of cells with mildly pleomorphic nuclei, small nucleoli and eosinophilic cytoplasm.  An occasional giant cell is also seen nearby within the lymph node parenchyma. The cytological features of the cells of the tubule are similar to those of the previously excised invasive carcinoma (79D87572).  The tubule is only present in a single level and attempted analysis with a keratin immunostain following deparaffinisation and destaining of the H&E stained section is unsuccessful due to tissue disruption.  In a separate single level, away from the tubular focus, there are several nests of bland ovoid to spindle cells within the capsule of the lymph node. These cells have slightly irregular nuclei, pale chromatin and a rare intranuclear inclusion.  No mitosis are seen.  Attempted keratin immunostaining on these cells is also unsuccessful due to tissue disruption.  The routine CAM5.2 keratin immunostains (performed on levels not containing these foci) are negative.  
COMMENT:
The sentinel lymph node shows a single tubular structure with the subcapsular sinus, raising the possibility of involvement by isolated tumour cells.  However attempted analysis with keratin immunostains is non-contributory for technical reasons anddefinitive diagnosis is not possible.  An additional focus within the capsule of the lymph node is strongly favoured to represent a cluster of benign naevus cells.

Shown to Dr S Attwell and Dr S Atkin, both of whom concur. 
 
Digital images of these foci were taken prior to attempted immunostaining.

B. Sections show reactive stromal changes around the surgical cavity. Although no DCIS is seen in the immediate vicinity of the cavity, there is a contiguous focus of low grade micropapillary DCIS, 5.4mm in maximum dimension, within subareolar ducts, deep to the dermis (B12).  This focus is superficial to an area of fibrosis, subacute haemorrhage and stromal giant cell reaction.  The DCIS contains associated microcalcification but no necrosis.  The DCIS is at least 8mm clear of the closest (superficial) margin and well clear of the other margins.  No pagetoid involvement of the epidermis is seen.  Scattered foci of columnar cell change are present and the breast lobules are mainly atrophic.  No evidence of invasive malignancy seen. 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Right sentinel lymph node: 
-  Asingle tubule (<0.1mm) within the subcapsular sinus raising the possibility for involvement by isolated tumour cells (see comment).  
-  Second focus within lymph node capsule with appearances strongly favouring benign naevus cells.
B.  Right completion mastectomy:
-  Subareolar low grade DCIS, 5.4mm in dimension, margins clear.

