Episode No:  72C712959R
720712.ZPZ

BRAMHALL, LUCIEN 
Lab No:  72C71295
Cheves
IRON KNOB  WA  6170
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  6/3/2003
Sex:  M
Collected: 22/07/2013 at 09:29
Location:  RHW-PORT BROUGHTON DISTRICT HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SERVICES
DR EMIL LAQUITA MINIARD
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,DR Herendeen
CLINICAL:
Previous Hartman's for perforated sigmoid colon.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel" consists of a strip of mucosa 40mm x 6mm to a depth of 4mm.  Serially sectioned AE 1 block.
B.  Specimen labelled "Colon" consists of a section of colon 42mm in length.  One end of the colon is receivedopened whilst the other has a stapled resection margin.  There is an area of mesenteric fat measuring 90 x 65 x 35mm.  The end which is received opened is inked black whilst the stapled end is inked blue.  No suspicious areas are identified.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified from 3 to 7mm.  
Blocks:  1 & 2 - one resection margin; 3 & 4 - other resectionmargin; 5 - apical node; 6 to 8 - further lymph nodes.
C.  Specimen labelled "Colostomy" consists of a colostomy with a orifice measuring 32 x 30mm to a depth of 45mm.  There is a suture stapled to resection margin at thedeep aspect.  No suspicious areas are identified.  Representative sections in 2 blocks.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Distal donut" consists of a donut of mucosa 25 x 18 x 10mm.  No suspicious areas are identified.  Representative sections in 1 block.  
E.  Specimen labelled "Caecal polyp" consists of one polyp 5mm.  BAE 1 block.
F.  Specimen labelled "Ascending polyp" consists of six fragments of tan tissue from 2 to 6mm.  AE 1 block.  (DF/mm 24.9.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr T Littman & Dr T Vandeputte):
A.  Sections of small bowel show no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
B.  Sections of colon show a mild peritonitis but no other significant abnormality.  Two benign lymph nodes are identified.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Sections show a colostomy including surrounding skin.  There is no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
D.  Sections show colonic mucosa with no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
E.  Sections show an inflamed hyperplastic polyp.  There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.
F.  One of the biopsies shows a tubular adenoma with low grade epithelial dysplasia while one of the other biopsies shows an inflamed hyperplastic polyp.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Small bowel:  No significant abnormality.
B.  Colon:  Focal peritonitis, no other significant abnormality.  
C.  Colostomy:  No significant abnormality.
D.  Distal donut:  No significant abnormality.
E.  Caecal colon polyp:  Hyperplastic polyp
F.  Ascending colon polyp:
- Tubular adenoma.
- Hyperplastic polyp.

