Episode No:  56N798857H
5657988.OTH

DEGAN, ANIBAL 
Lab No:  56N79885
Cardinal
BARWON HEADS  ACT  2260
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  11/11/1987
Sex:  M
Collected:11/12/2012 at 15:48
Location:  Radiation Oncology-PETER MACCALLUM CANCER CENTRE
DR MORTON JAMAR VERSAW
Distribution:  DR Huston,  FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Hartman's procedure for large partially obstructing upper rectal cancer.  Bilateral liver and lung METS.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Sigmoid colon [fresh tissue taken for tissue banking 13/2/62]" consists of a portion of large bowel measuring up to 170mm in length. The rectum measures 110mm  in open circumference, the sigmoidcolon measures up to 50mm in open circumference.  The proximal surgical margin is inked black, distal surgical margin blue.  The paracolic fat surgical margin inked green.  The anterior peritoneal reflection is at the distal resection margin.  There is an area of stricture externally measuring 60mm from the distal resection margin.  Underlying this stricture is a large circumferential tumour occupying a length of upto 65mm.  It is fungating and ulcerated.  The tumour is located 30mm from the distal resection margin posteriorly.  The tumour appears to invade through the wall into the mesentericfat and is 8mm clear of the pararectal margin.  There are several uncomplicated diverticular noted in the sigmoid colon.  Some of the diverticular contain faeces pellets.  No apical lymph node identified.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - distal surgical margin; 3 - proximal surgical margin; 4 - proximal tumour with normal mucosa; 5 - LS distal tumour with normal mucosa; 6 & 7 - deepest part of tumour extending to fat; 8 - possible reserve block for tumour banking; 9 & 10 - tumour at area of stricture; 11 - representative diverticular; 12 - one bisected lymph node; 13 to 16 - three possible lymph nodes each; 17 - one possible lymph node; 18 - two possible lymph nodes; 19 - one possible lymph node; 20 - fat containingpossible lymph nodes; 21 - three possible lymph nodes.  
(TO: IK; KS/Ta 14/2/62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr O Mettlen):
Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the rectum.  The carcinoma has infiltrated through the full thickness of the rectal wall and shows widespread invasion of the pararectal fatfor a distance of approximately 15mm. Focal venous invasion and extensive perineural invasion are seen within the pararectal fat. Tumour is 5mm clear of the pararectal margin (perineural invasion).  Carcinoma also appears to infiltrate to the anterior peritoneum which appears to have been breached by tumour. 
One(1) of the sixteen (16) pararectal and mesenteric lymph nodes identified contains metastatic adenocarcinoma. This involved node is located at the advancing edge of the infiltrating tumour and is well clear of the pararectal margin. 
The sigmoid colon shows uncomplicated diverticular disease and the colorectal mucosa away from the tumour appears normal.  No polyps identified.
DIAGNOSIS:  
Anterior resection:

Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour: Upper rectum. 	
Maximum tumour diameter:  65mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 30mm
Tumour perforation: No
For rectal tumours
Relation of tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection:	  Above  
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT4a	Tumour penetrates the surface of the visceral peritoneum
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not involved
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin: 5mm
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: 16.	
Number of lymph nodes involved:1.	
pN1a	Metastases in 1 regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Present (Extramural) 
Perineural invasion
Present - extensive at the advancing nmargin. 
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Adenomas  Nil. 
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
-  pT4a pN1a R0.
-  Perineural and lymphovascular invasion. 
	


 
 

