
Episode No:  38R527861V
3865278.QEV

WINOGRAD, BEATRIZ 
Lab No:  38R52786
Saumur
ROBINVALE  ACT  3435
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  4/5/1992
Sex:  F
Collected: 20/1/2062 at 09:03
Location:  Tissue Pathology and Diagnostic Oncology-COOLAH MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
DR COURTNEY WES FUSS
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Right hemicolectomy for obstructing transverse colonic tumour.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy" consists of a right hemicolectomy measuring up to 200mm in length with up to 40mm of attached terminal ileum.  There is no appendix attached.  The open circumference of the colon measures up to 180mm at the caecum and 65mm at the distal margin.  There is a circumferential tumour occupying 35mm of bowel length, located 45mm from the distal surgical margin.  The tumour is fungating, ulcerated and extends into the lumen.  Macroscopically it does not breach the serosal surface.  The serosal surface of the caecum is covered in fibrinous patchyexudate.  A suture is present central to a large patch of exudate.  The caecum appears distended and the mucosa denuded.  On cut section the tumour involves the full extent of the bowel wall up to the serosa.  There is focal pericolicfat invasion macroscopically.  The remainder of the mucosal surface is unremarkable.  There are no polyps appreciated.  An apical lymph node is identified measuring up to 22mm.  Multiple mesenteric lymph nodes identified.
Blocks:  1- terminal ileum surgical margin; 2 - distal surgical margin; 3 -representative sections around caecal exudate; 4 to 7 - full face lesion (5 - deepest section to serosal surface); 8 - LS proximal edge of tumour; 9 - LS distaledge of tumour; 10 - tumour reserve block; 11 & 12 - sectioned apical lymph node; 13 - one bisected lymph node; 14 - one lymph node; 15 to 19 - three lymph nodes each; 20 - four lymph nodes; 21 - three lymph nodes; 22 - two lymph nodes;23 - four lymph nodes; 24 - four lymph nodes; 25 - remaining possible lymph nodes.   
(TO:XD; RU/cc  21/1/62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof K Beverlin): 
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour: Transverse colon	
Maximum tumour diameter: 35mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 45mm
Tumour perforation: No, but there is evidence of perforation of the caecum. 

Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria - tumour extends close to the peritoneal surface and there is organising inflammation on the serosa, but no definite evidence of serosal involvement is identified.

Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:	Not involved - organising inflammation is seen on the serosal of the terminal ileum stump.
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: 40	
Number of lymph nodes involved: 0	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Present - focally at the advancing edge of the tumour.
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities
Other - the caecum shows marked thinning, mucosal ulceration, transmural inflammation and evidence of perforation, probably relatedto distal obstruction.
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
pT3	pN0	pMX	R0	
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status
MLH1: Loss of staining				
PMS2: Loss of staining			
MSH2: No loss of staining			
MSH6: Patchystaining, but comparable to staining in adjacent normal mucosa.
Absence (loss) of staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH 2 or MSH 6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.			
DIAGNOSIS:
COLON: 
	ADENOCARCINOMA. 
	NO EVIDENCE OF LYMPH NODE METASTASES
	LOSS OF STAINING IN MLH1 AND PMS2


