Episode No:  46M672490X
4646724.XCX

DILEO, MAYNARD 
Lab No:  46M67249
Belle Isle
DODGES FERRY  Australian Capital Territory  2470
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/3/2001
Sex:  M
Collected: 24/04/2012 at 13:52
Location:  MEDIC/SURGERYWARD-NANNUP HOSPITAL
DR GLEN BASIL GANES
Distribution:   FILE-COPY

CLINICAL:
Small bowel tumour.  Obstructing tumour of ileum 50cm from ileocaecal valve, adherent to surrounding mesentery.  Resected of involved loop, palliative resection as further peritoneal nodule also resected for biopsy. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel tumour", consists of a loop of small bowel approximately 210mm in length and up to 22mm in diameter, with attached mesentery measuring 55mm. 
The two resected ends are adherent to each other and to mesentery.  A 25 x 20 x 20mm tumour mass is present within the mesenteryin this area.  The tumour erodes through the full thickness of the bowel wall, with associated mucosal ulceration, 20mm from one of the resected ends.  Multiple involved lymph nodes/tumour nodules are present within mesentery.
The small bowel mucosa appears unremarkable.  
Block 1 - shave resection margin nearest tumour; 2 - LS tumour and nearest resection margin ; 3 - shave resection margin away from tumour; 4-6 - full face tumour and bowel wall; 7 & 8 - further representative tumour; 9-11 - mesenteric lymph nodes/tumour nodules nearest tumour; 12-15 - mesenteric lymph nodes/tumour nodules away from tumour. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Mesenteric nodule", consists of a 6mm firm nodule.  
AE 1 block. 
(GK/ec  28.6.62) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr K Boller) 
A & B. Sections show a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet ring differentiation.  The carcinoma displays a transmural sheet like growth of malignant cells with signet ring or more undifferentiated features. The latter show enlarged hyperchromatic nuclei, vesicular chromatin, prominent nucleoli and minimal to moderate eosinophilic cytoplasm.   No more differentiated component is seen in the mucosa, as may be seen with primary tumours.  Focal extracellular mucin is seen. The tumour contiguously invades the mesenteric fat and there is serosal involvement (block A5) There is focal exophytic mucosa growth but no adjacent adenomatous component.  Extensive mucosal and submucosal lymphatic invasion and focal intramural venous involvement (block A5) is present.  Twenty five (25) of thirty one (31) mesenteric ymph nodes are involved by metastatic adenocarcinoma, many of which are almost completely replaced.    All but one of the involved lymph nodes show foci of extra nodal extension which measure up 2mm in maximum dimension.  Foci of perineural invasion by extranodal tumour is also seen (block A9) and a focus of extranodal extension by tumour also penetrates the adjacent serosa (block A12). There are also several peri nodal tumour deposits, presumably representing extralymphatic extension.  A subserosal component of the tumour extends to with 0.9mm of one longitudinal resection margin.  
The mucosa away from the tumour is unremarkable with a normal villous to crypt ratio, a normal component of inflammatory cells within the lamina propria and surface epithelium and no ulceration or granulomas seen.
The mesenteric nodule (specimen B) is a serosal lined deposit of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. No recognisable lymph node architecture is seen.
Immunohistochemistry.   
The tumour cells stain as follows:  
Positive:  There is patchy positive staining for CK7 and CK7 which is predominantly in the signet ring component.
Negative: PSA, TTF1, Chromogranin A, Synaptophysin, CD56
COMMENT:
The features are those of a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet ring differentiation.   Primary adenocarcinoma of the small intestine is extremely rare and more commonly occurs in the duodenum.  Gross and histological features may not be reliable in distinguishing primary from metastatic adenocarcinoma in the small bowel.  There is also a degree of overlap in the CK7/CK20 immunoprofiles of primary versus metastatic adenocarcinoma.  No definite adjacent adenomatous component is seen and the mucosa away from the tumour shows no histological abnormalities.   The staining of tumour cells for both CK7 and CK20 somewhat favours a small bowel primary over metastasis from a colorectal primary/appendiceal, however, this immunoprofile is also consistent with metastasis from or upper gastrointestinal primary, such as the stomach.   Metastatic lung and prostate adenocarcinoma are unlikely in view of the negative TTF1 and PSA immunostains respectively.   Clinical and radiological correlation is necessary.
DIAGNOSIS:  
A & B. Small bowel tumour & mesenteric nodule:
-  Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet ring differentiation. (see comment).
-  Mural and extramural lymphatic spread and mural venous invasion
-  Serosal involvement
-  Close resection margin (0.9mm)
-  Metastatic adenocarcinoma in 25/31 mesenteric lymph nodes 
-  Extensive foci of perinodal spread.
-  x1 mesenteric deposit of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma  (specimen B)

