SPR no: 57D342759R
MRN no: 571342
Site_name: UPPER MURRAY HEALTH AND COMMUNITY SERVICES
Facility_id: MR
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report57D34275,57D34275 (57D342759R) RUBEL, LACIE YOLA

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Leiomyosarcoma. Uterus, tubes and ovaries. appendiceal epiploica, pouch of Douglas, rectosigmoid mesentery, left paracolic, left pelvic node, uterovesical.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;UTERUS, BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES&amp;quot;. Uterus with attached left fallopian tube and ovary and attached cervix and received separately is a right ovary and fallopian tube. The uterus weighs 574g and measures  110mm superior to inferior, 79mm anterior to posterior. The ectocervix is 30x20mm with a slit like os 5mm. It is cream coloured and unremarkable. Anterior inked black and posterior blue. The serosal surface is firm with multiple nodules and plaque tan areas consistent with tumour deposit. Also noted on the anterior surface is a nodule measuring up to 45mm in maximum dimension. On sectioning through the myometrium there is a large mass with a varigated cut surface measuring 120x80x80mm. It is partially tan and whorled in appearance with intermixed yellow necrotic and haemorrhagic areas. The mass extends into the previously mentioned nodule anteriorly reaches the serosal surface and extends into the lower uterine segment and into the cervical stroma inferiorly where it lies close to the cervical soft tissue margins.

(1 anterior cervix; 2 posterior cervix; 3&amp;amp;4 anterior lower uterine segment; 5 posterior lower uterine segment; 6-8 composite slices anterior endometrium; 9 posterior endometrium; 10&amp;amp;11 fundus including myometrium [11 shows haemorrhagic area; 12 further section of tumour in relation to anterior lower uterine segment; 13 yellow area within tumour; 14 fleshy section of tumour in relation to anterior margin; 15-19 nodular areas on serosa; 20&amp;amp;21 section  of nodule bulging the serosa anteriorly; 22 section of nodule bulging serosa anteriorly in relation to the main tumour; 23 left cornu; 24 possible right cornu; 25 left parametrial tissue; 26 right parametrial tissue).

The right fallopian tube and ovary are received separately altogether weighing 11g. Ovary is 25x15x3mm. The serosal surface appears unremarkable. The fallopian tube measures 40mm in length with a maximum diameter of 6mm. There are two fatty lumps noted paratubally. On sectioning through the ovary it has a firm appearing cut surface.

(27 right ovary; 28 right fallopian tube).

The left ovary and fallopian tube together weight 3.8g. Fallopian tube measures  40mm in length with maximum diameter of 10mm. The ovary is 10x10x2mm and appears atrophic. The paratubal serosa is unremarkable. On sectioning through presumed ovary it has a firm cut surface. Entire left ovary is embedded.

(29 left ovary; 30 left tube) RS (M-30).

Further tissue:
Further segments of cervix and lower uterine segment are embedded including margin of soft tissue.
(31 anterior cervix; 32&amp;amp;33 composite slices anterior lower uterine segment [31-33 is continuous]; 34&amp;amp;35 composite slices [34 posterior cervix, 35 lower uterine segment]; 36 anterior cervix; 37 posterior cervix).  RS (M-37/MC/nh).

B. &amp;quot;APPENDICEAL EPIPLOICA&amp;quot;. A firm piece of fatty tissue 10x10x8mm. Bisected. On sectioning the cut surface reveals a firm tan area. AE (2-1).

C. &amp;quot;POUCH OF DOUGLAS&amp;quot;. A piece of fibrofatty tissue  measuring  80x45x15mm and is extensively involved by tan deposits of tumour. RS (M-3).

D. &amp;quot;RECTOSIGMOID MESENTERY&amp;quot;. A firm nodule of fat involved by tumour measuring 15x12x10mm. It is quad resection. On sectioning the cut surface is tan to pale in appearance. RS (M-1).

E. &amp;quot;LEFT PARACOLIC&amp;quot;. A piece of fatty tissue involved by a firm tan tumour measuring 15x12x3mm. Quad resected. On sectioning the cut surface reveals a pale white cut surface. AE (M-1).

F. &amp;quot;LEFT PELVIC NODE&amp;quot;. A piece of fat measuring 25x20x10mm. Two possible nodes identified.

(1 two lymph nodes; 2 remainder of fat). AE (M-2).

G. &amp;quot;UTEROVESICAL&amp;quot;. A piece of fatty tissue involved by a pale tan deposit of tumour measuring 45x25x6mm. RS (M-1/MC/ht).

MICROSCOPIC:     (Dr N Marroguin)
A.  Histology shows replacement of much of the uterus by a leiomyosarcoma with high-grade cytology. The tumour is characterised by a proliferation of atypical spindle cells which display moderate and in places marked nuclear atypia with foci of tumour necrosis and mitotic activity which is 21 mitoses per 10/hpf (x400). Immunostains show positivity for actin, focally for desmin and also for vimentin and cytokeratin. HMB45, S100, CD34 and CD117 are negative. The sarcoma shows widespread infiltration throughout the uterus and reaches the serosal surface on the anterior and posterior aspect of the uterus. Inferiorly the sarcoma also infiltrates into the stroma of the cervix and extends to reach the anterior and posterior cervical soft tissue resection margins. A focus of probable lymphatic vascular invasion is also seen within the uterus. Small deposits of metastatic leiomyosarcoma area also seen within the hilus of the right ovary and on the surface of the left ovary. Both fallopian tubes are not involved. The endometrium is relatively atrophic but shows infiltration again by leiomyosarcoma.

B.  Histology shows fatty tissue showing widespread infiltration by high grade metastatic leiomyosarcoma.

C.  Histology shows fatty tissue with a surface peritoneal mesothelial  lining which shows multiple deposits of metastatic leiomyosarcoma.

D.  Histology shows muscularis propria with serosal fat with infiltration by metastatic leiomyosarcoma into smooth muscle.

E.  Histology shows fibrofatty peritoneal tissue containing deposits of metastatic leiomyosarcoma.

F.  No evidence of malignancy is seen in three lymph nodes.

G.  Histology shows fibrofatty peritoneal tissue which contains deposits of metastatic leiomyosarcoma.

DIAGNOSIS:
A. UTERUS, BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES -
-  UTERINE LEIOMYOSARCOMA INVOLVING THE SEROSAL SURFACE WITH METASTATIC DEPOSITS IN BOTH OVARIES.

B.  APPENDICEAL EPIPLOICAE - METASTATIC LEIOMYOSARCOMA.

C.  POUCH OF DOUGLAS - METASTATIC LEIOMYOSARCOMA.

D.  RECTOSIGMOID MESENTERY - METASTATIC LEIOMYOSARCOMA.

E.  LEFT PARACOLIC - METASTATIC LEIOMYOSARCOMA.

F.  LEFT PELVIC NODE - NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY IN 3 NODES.

G.  UTEROCERVICAL - METASTATIC LEIOMYOSARCOMA.

25/1/2066 ht
