SPR no: 45R068901I
MRN no: 4560689
Site_name: ALBURY WODONGA HEALTH - ALBURY CAMPUS
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report***** SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT &amp;#8211; SEE BELOW *****

CLINICAL:
Previous gastric cancer 6 years ago - distal gastrectomy. April 2066 - right hemicolectomy for T4/N2 colorectal cancer.  Some doubt as to whether this was colorectal or gastric (CK20 -ve).  No ileocolic recurrence.  Long stitch on known positive margin on duodenum.  Separate duodenal specimen represents this margin.  Double stitch on separate nodule on another piece of small bowel taken enbloc.  Two transanal specimens - one 9 o&amp;apos;clock, one 3 o&amp;apos;clock full thickness - known adenocarcinoma.  Colon cancer, PPM, DM T2, high cholesterol.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;peritoneal nodule around duodenum&amp;#8220;, consists of two pieces of tan tissue, 3 x 2 x 1mm and 10 x 4  x 3mm.  AE for FS in 1 block.

FROZEN SECTION:  Metastatic carcinoma.
Result to anaesthetist by Dr M Tiburcio at 15:48 on 3.11.16.

B.   Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Ileocolic resection and gallbladder&amp;quot;, consists of a tortuous length of small bowel extensively adherent to itself and forming a mass, 55 x 40 x 42mm.  Adherent to one area of the bowel mucosa is the gallbladder measuring 60mm in length with a diameter of 38mm.  There is attached cystic duct measuring 8mm in length with a diameter of 7mm. There is a long suture adjacent to the gallbladder attachment site marking &amp;quot;known positive margin&amp;quot; and a second double suture marking a serosal tumour nodule, 17 x 12 x 12mm.  The bowel surgical margins are inked black and the remaining specimen is inked blue.  On sectioning, the specimen is extensively stapled.  There appears to be possible pale grey tumour extending through the bowel wall at the point of adhesion with the gallbladder.  The sutured tumour nodule is pale grey and firm.  The bowel mucosa appears uninvolved by tumour.  The gallbladder has a wall thickness of 1mm and contains green mucinous fluid; there are no gallstones. The mucosa is green and appears uninvolved by tumour.
Blocks 1 - TS shave (2mm) cystic duct margin;  2- mid TS gallbladder; 3 - LS fundus gallbladder; 4 - LS bowel surgical margins; 5-7 - composite slice mid specimen (5 - point of adhesion with gallbladder, including area marked by long suture, 6 - tumour nodule marked by double suture); 8 - TS representative small bowel, ?3mm tumour nodule on serosal surface.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Duodenal wall&amp;quot;, consists of an irregularly shaped piece of bowel mucosa, 29 x 13 x 10mm.  On the opposite side is possible grey peritoneum. The surgical margin and presumed peritoneum are inked blue. The mucosa appears unremarkable.
Specimen sectioned transversely.  AE 3 blocks.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Rectal cancer local excision&amp;#8220;, consists of an irregularly shaped piece of mucosa, 24 x 18 x 14mm. The mucosa has several defects, ? surgical. There is a possible grey tumour on the mucosal surface, 9 x 9mm.  Specimen sectioned transversely.  AE 2 blocks.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Rectal lesion 3 o&amp;apos;clock&amp;#8220;, consists of a wedge of rectal mucosa, 9 x 8 x 8mm. Centrally there is a 4mm sessile polyp.  The surgical margin is inked blue.  Specimen bisected transversely.  AE 1 block.     (TO:  JB/ec  6.1.66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof M Swartzlander):
A. Paraffin sections of fibroadipose tissue confirm the presence of adenocarcinoma composed of small irregular glands as well as numerous single tumour cells with an infiltrative pattern.

B. Sections taken through the point of adhesion between small bowel and gallbladder show moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma consisting of small and large infiltrative glands which extend from small bowel mucosa, into the wall of the gallbladder and to the blue inked, smooth muscle surface of the specimen. Numerous signet ring cells are present. Suture material, consistent with previous surgery, is noted.
The tumour nodule marked by a double suture also shows adenocarcinoma present with the serosa between two separate layers of adherent muscularis propria. This tumour nodule also extends to the inked surface of the specimen.
A separate serosal nodule of tumour is identified in block B8.
Perineural invasion is present and foci of small vessel invasion are also identified.
The tumour shows positive staining with keratin 7 and keratin 19 but is negative for CDX2 and CD20. This profile would favour origin from an upper gastrointestinal origin rather than colorectum.

The sections taken from the bowel surgical margins show serosal inflammation and fibrosis but are clear of tumour.
The cystic duct margin is clear. The gallbladder mucosa shows extensive autolysis but there is no evidence of a primary gallbladder abnormality.

C. The section of duodenal wall show a serosal deposit of adenocarcinoma which extends to the blue inked surface of the specimen. Carcinoma also invades superficially through the muscularis propria to extend into the submucosa. No connection to the overlying mucosa is seen.
Vascular and perineural invasion are seen.
There is a small amount of attached pancreatic tissue identified.

D. The sections of rectum have fragmented making assessment of margins difficult.
There is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma which appears to take origin from dysplastic colonic epithelium and invades through mucosa into superficial submucosa, consistent with a T1 tumour. There is no invasion of muscularis propria identified.
No definite vascular invasion is seen.
The carcinoma appears bounded by a zone of normal colonic mucosa but fragmentation makes assessment of the thickness of the margin difficult.
The appearances would favour a primary rectal adenocarcinoma, however, immunostaining is in progress,

E. The sections of colonic mucosa show a possibly hyperplastic polyp.
There is no evidence of malignancy seen.


DIAGNOSIS:
A. Peritoneal nodule around duodenum: Metastatic adenocarcinoma.

B. Ileocolic resection and gallbladder: Metastatic adenocarcinoma extending to surface of specimen.

C. Duodenal wall: Metastatic adenocarcinoma

D. Rectal cancer local excision: Adenocarcinoma, T1.

E. Rectal lesion 3 o&amp;apos;clock: Possible hyperplastic polyp.

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (A/Prof M Cahee) 23/2/2066
D. The immunohistochemistry staining on the adenocarcinoma shows strong positive expression of CDX2 and focal expression of keratin 20. Areas of the tumour are keratin 20 negative.
The keratin 7 stain is essentially negative (particularly when compared to the strong expression seen in the duodenal wall tumour in specimen C).
Keratin 19 also shows focal expression.
The overall pattern, particularly the strong CDX2 expression and negative keratin 7, would be in keeping with a colorectal primary.

Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining

Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.

Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

E. Multiple deeper levels have been examined. The area of hyperplastic polyp is confirmed and in addition an adjacent area of tubular adenoma with low grade dysplasia has emerged in the deeper levels. The surface resembles hyperplastic polyp, raising the possibility of a combined polyp or sessile serrated adenoma.
No evidence of invasive malignancy is identified.
