SPR no: 36S800164S
MRN no: 367800
Site_name: RURAL NORTHWEST HEALTH - WARRACKNABEAL CAMPUS
Facility_id: MR
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report

CLINICAL:
Right 9 o&amp;apos;clock 9mm ADH history of left DCIS.  Mammo guided HWL excision biopsy.  Stereo bx of calcs + clips ADH right.  HWL ex bx.  Short superior.  Long lateral.  Medium medial sutures. For specimen X-Ray at IMVS Grenstead.


MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right breast lesion sutures, medium medial, short superior, long lateral&amp;quot;, consists of a fibrofatty piece of tissue with orienting sutures as described and hookwire.  Specimen X-Ray obtained at Spectrum Imaging Silver Street, demonstrating a hookwire within the specimen and clip midway along the length of the hookwire. Grid was not included in the specimen X-Ray.  The hookwire enters laterally, specimen measures 45mm medial to lateral by 16mm superior to inferior by 15mm superficial to deep.  Superficial surface inked blue, deep black.  With inferior striped red.  Specimen serially sliced TS into seven slices. Clip in block 7.  Slice one medial; slice seven lateral; slice two fragmented on cutting.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - slice one LS; 4 - slice two; 5 - slice three; 6 - slice four; 7 - slice five; 8 - slice six; 9 to 11 - slice seven LS.  Clip in block 7.  AE.
(TO: MS; MS/rs 1/1/66); please refer to attached diagram.  (TO: MS; MS/rs 1/1/66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr J Pelkowski):
The specimen is entirely embedded and examined.  A specimen radiograph shows a  clip in the lateral in the lateral half of the specimen where there is dense fibroblastic reaction and patchy fat necrosis consistent with previous core biopsy sampling. The reaction extends to the superficial and deep margins.  A single duct space measuring 0.3mm is partially involved by a monomorphic proliferation of cells with cribriform architecture, unassociated with calcifications.  The focus, which has cut out in deeper levels, is consistent with atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH) and is 0.5mm from the deep margin with no intervening normal ducts (Block 5).  Adjacent ducts also show hyperplasia but are diathermy affected and disrupted limiting assessment.    There are   foci of epithelial hyperplasia of usual type and focal fibroadenomatoid change within lobules. There is also subacute haemorrhage and a giant cell reaction.  There are scattered non- contiguous calcifications associated with benign glands, distributed across eight slices over about 32mm.  No evidence of in-situ or invasive malignancy is seen in multiple levels examined.


DIAGNOSIS:
Right breast lesion (hookwire localised excision):
-  Atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH), 0.5mm from closest (deep) margin.
-  Non-contiguous benign microcalcifications distributed across about 32mm.
-  Scar tissue and clip identfiied within specimen.
