SPR no: 21R939809V
MRN no: 2169398
Site_name: WEST GIPPSLAND HEALTHCARE GROUP
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
High anterior resection.  Sigmoid ca.  Distal donut.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Anterior resection&amp;#8221;, consists of a segment of large bowel, completely above the peritoneal reflection, measuring 140mm in length with a circumference of 55mm.   There is a small amount of attached pericolic fibroadipose tissue measuring 75mm in width.  There is a firm, centrally ulcerated tumour with raised edges towards one end measuring 19 x 10 x 2mm.  The tumour is 30mm from one surgical margin and 90mm from the other surgical margin.  The mucosa appears otherwise unremarkable.  The surgical margin closest to the tumour is inked blue and the other surgical margin is inked black.  The tumour appears confined to mucosa/submucosa, and extends to a depth of 5mm.
Blocks:  1 - LS closest surgical margin; 2 - LS other surgical margin; 3 to 5 - LS complete tumour; 6 - LS bowel wall; 7 - apical region; 8 to 16 - lymph node as seen.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Proximal donut&amp;#8221; consists of a sutured donut shaped piece of bowel  measuring 20mm in diameter to a length of 10mm.  The bowel is attached to a metal piece of surgical equipment.  The mucosa is unremarkable; no tumour is seen.  AE 2 blocks (sectioned transversely).

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;#8220;Distal donut&amp;#8221; consists of a stapled donut bowel measuring 17mm in diameter to a length of 10mm.  The stapled margin is inked blue.  The mucosa is unremarkable; no tumour is seen.  AE 2 blocks (sectioned transversely).
(JB/rt 1.8.66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr H Giacchi):
A to C.  Synoptic Report for Large Bowel Carcinoma
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:  Sigmoid colon
Maximum tumour diameter:  19mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  30mm
Tumour perforation:  No

Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS

Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate

Local invasion
pT2	Invasion into muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:  Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not applicable
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  Not applicable

Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:	13
Number of lymph nodes involved:	0

pN0	No regional LN metastasis

Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent

Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
- Specimen B (proximal donut) shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
- Specimen C (distal donut) shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour

Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Not applicable

Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
The block best for molecular genetic testing is:  A3

Summary &amp;#8211; TNM 7th Edition
pT2     pN0     pMX     R0
DIAGNOSIS:
A to C.  Sigmoid colon - Adenocarcinoma.
