SPR no: 16K277247K
MRN no: 361107
Site_name: MUNDUBBERA MULTIPURPOSE HEALTH SERVICE
Facility_id: MR
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportSupplementary report 2/11/2066 MMRP immunostains
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT (36E107413X) 36E10741, 36E10741
HISTORY: Previous ca endometrium.  Peritoneal washings for cytology. Uterus, tubes + ovaries.  Right pelvic lymph node. Right para-aortic node. Omentum. Anterior abdominal wall. Previous: via phone Dr K Hatten: Endometrial polyp from 10/6/66 DHM: endometrial polyp with involvement of surface by serous carcinoma.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;UTERUS, TUBES, OVARIES, POUCH OF DOUGLAS AND PERITONEUM&amp;quot;.  Consists of a uterus with attached bilateral ovaries, fallopian tubes, Pouch of Douglas and peritoneum weighing 135g in total.  The uterus measures 45mm from medial to lateral, 75mm from fundus to cervix and 25mm from anterior to posterior.  The cervix measures 30mm in maximal diameter and appears unremarkable. The anterior cervical surgical margin is inked black and the posterior cervical margin is inked blue. The right fallopian tube measures up to 90mm in length and 15mm in maximum diameter where it is pale and firm.  There is a cyst with fimbrial end adherent measuring 35x40x55mm in maximal extent.  The thin walled  cyst is also adherent to the ovary which measures up to 35x10x10mm.  The left fallopian tube includes fimbrial end and measures up to 50mm in length and 6mm in external diameter. The left ovary measures 25x15x10mm.  There is peritoneum attached to the right ovary measuring up to 65x40x8mm.  There are multiple polypoid tumour deposits over the serosal surface of the uterus anteriorly, right fallopian tube and ovary, left ovarian surface and tube.  On sectioning the uterus, the endometrium measures 1mm and the myometrium measures 14mm in maximal extent anteriorly, and 10mm in maximal extent posteriorly.  A mural fibroid is noted measuring 3mm in maximal extent. The firm area of fallopian tube measures 30x15x15mm.  On sectioning the right paratubal cyst is filled with clear fluid and has a smooth lining with no papillary excrescences noted.  On sectioning the left and right ovaries the tumour deposits appear to  be on the surface only.  Some small tumour deposits measuring from 1-3mm are noted in the Pouch of Douglas.
(1-3 anterior cervix to fundus [notches inferior];
4-6 posterior cervix to fundus [notches inferior, fibroid block 6];
7 representative peritoneum tumour deposit;
8 right fallopian tube TS tumour; 9 LS right tube with fimbrial end and tumour and uninvolved TS tube; 10 representative right fimbrial end overlying cyst; 11 representative cyst wall with ? tumour deposit 2mm; 12 representative TS right ovary;
13 representative TS left ovary; 14 LS/TS left tube including fimbrial end;
15&amp;amp;16 representative uterine serosal surface anteriorly; 17 Pouch of Douglas; 18 right parametrial tissue; 19 left parametrial tissue; 20 tumour reserve block).  RS (M-20) Further: remaining endometium: no lesions seen 21,22,23,24,25; LV
B.  &amp;quot;OMENTUM&amp;quot;.  A piece of omentum measuring up to 350x100x20mm.  It is involved by multiple deposits of pale firm tumour.  The largest single area measuring 10mm in maximal extent.  (1&amp;amp;2 representative tumour deposits).  RS (2-2)
C.  &amp;quot;ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL&amp;quot;.  An irregular piece of grey and fatty tissue measuring 35x20x6mm with some firm areas ? tumour.  (1 7mm diameter ? tumour deposit; 2 remaining tissue).  AE (M-2)
D.  &amp;quot;POSTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL&amp;quot;.  A piece of fatty tissue measuring 20x10x3mm with two pale tumour deposits measuring 3 and 4mm in maximal extent.  Transversely sectioned.  AE (3-1)
E.  &amp;quot;RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;.  An unorientated piece of fatty tissue measuring up to 35x30x8mm. Three possible nodes are identified measuring 6, 12 and 15mm in maximal extent.  No definite tumour deposit seen macroscopically. (1 largest node transversely sectioned; 2 12mm node trisected; 3 smallest node; 4 remaining fatty tissue).  AE (M-4)
F.  &amp;quot;RIGHT PARA-AORTIC&amp;quot;.  Two pieces of irregular fatty tissue measuring 20 and 30mm in maximal extent.  Four possible nodes are identified measuring smallest 10mm to largest 25mm in maximal extent.  Two of the nodes appear macroscopically involved by tumour.
(1 macroscopically involved node all embedded; 2 macroscopically involved node all embedded; 3 possible node; 4 largest fatty node transversely sectioned). AE (M-4/EE/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:   Reported by K. Ecoffey
a-f:
Tumour description:
There is extensive mainly surface involvement of pelvic organs by high grade serous carcinoma. The serous carcinoma has papillary, micropapillary and solid growth pattern. There is a high mitotic rate with at least 80 mitoses per 10 hpf and there are atypical mitoses. Some areas of the tumour show an endometrioid carcinoma like glandular pattern but most is typical high grade serous carcinoma pattern. There is extensive involvement of fimbrial ends of fallopian tubes and assessment of STIC in this setting is difficult. In the presence of previous serous carcinoma in an endometrial polyp the tumour could be endometrial primary with intrabdominal spread but the strong WT1 staining although not definite would tend to favour fallopian tube primary with small drop metastasis to endometrium. There is no residual endometrial involvement in the current specimen.
Ectocervix: normal
Endocervix: normal
Endometrium: All processed. Inactive endometrium with an area of mild complex hyperplasia without atypia in one section. No residual polyp or serous lesion.
HISTOLOGICAL TUMOUR TYPE: Serous carcinoma
TUMOUR GRADE:   High grade
SEROUS TUBAL INTRAEPITHELIAL CARCINOMA (STIC): Right and left Fallopian tubes: Equivocal (fimbrial ends extensively involved by surface papillary serous carcinoma)
HISTOLOGICAL SITES OF TUMOUR INVOLVEMENT:
Right ovarian surface.
Right ovary stromal invasion (2 mm)
Left ovarian surface
Left ovary stromal invasion (0.5 mm)
Right fallopian tube surface.
Right fallopian tube invasion from mucosa through to subserosa (10 mm invasion)
Left fallopian tube surface
Omentum (specimen b): Involved, macroscopic and microscopic, largest carcinoma deposit 14 mm in sections
Peritoneum: Involved: anterior and posterior (POD) uterine surface, anterior and posterior abdominal wall biopsies (specimens c and d)
LYMPHOVASCULAR INVASION: not identified
LYMPH NODE STATUS
Right Pelvic (specimen e)
Not involved.
Number of positive lymph nodes 0 of 6
Right Para-aortic (specimen f):
Involved
Number of positive lymph nodes 2 of 4.
Maximum dimension of largest deposit in regional node: 10 mm in cross section
COEXISTENT PATHOLOGY:
A right sided unilocular serous cyst is colonised on the internal surface by serous carcinoma.
ANCILLARY STUDIES
Immunohistochemical markers:
Serous carcinoma (A8): WT1 positive (3+), ER positive (80% 3+), p53 abnormal staining (null)
Area of more endometrioid pattern carcinoma (A8): WT1 negative, ER positive (80% 3+), p53 abnormal staining (null)
PERITONEAL WASHINGS CYTOLOGY: (lab number 36E10741) Positive
PROVISIONAL PATHOLOGICAL STAGING PRE-MDTM FIGO (2014 edition)
Site of primary tumour: Favour fallopian tube (FT), with differential of endometrium (endometrial polyp) possible
FIGO STAGE: III (both for fallopian tube or endometrial primary)
DIAGNOSIS:
a. uterus, tubes, ovaries, pouch of douglas, peritoneum: serous carcinoma high grade, involving tubes, ovaries, peritoneum, pouch of douglas, favour fallopian tube primary but endometrial primary (previous polyp) not excluded.
b. omentum: involved by serous carcinoma
c,d. anterior and posterior abdominal wall: involved by serous carcinoma
e. right pelvic nodes: negative
f. para-aortic nodes: involved by metastatic carcinoma (2/4 nodes positive).

L. Vonthethoff Pending: no further tests
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Supplementary report 2/11/2066
MMRP immunostains requested by Dr K Screws 23/11/2066:
Immunostains:
Mismatch repair proteins (MMRP), block: A8
Result:
MLH1: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
PMS2: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
MSH2: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
MSH6: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
Comment:
Mismatch repair proficient tumour.

(K Pessolano)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
