SPR no: 00I572829X
MRN no: 0035728
Site_name: HEALESVILLE & DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Left para-spinal resection. Recurrent sarcoma. Previous resection and radiotherapy. Stitch superior. Two lesions medial superior, lateral inferior. Craniectomy deep margin.
Occipital bone (hole on left side of bone).
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left para-spinal resection marking stitch superior&amp;quot;, consists of an oriented ellipse of skin with attached muscle, 120 x 35mm to a depth of 40mm. One suture designated 12 o&amp;apos;clock. Specimen received inked - designated 3 o&amp;apos;clock blue, 9 o&amp;apos;clock black. Specimen is serially sectioned from superior to inferior into 12 slices. There is one piece of unknown allocation and appears to be muscle. On sectioning there is a well circumscribed, pale and firm lesion close to the 9 o&amp;apos;clock side, 40 x 15 x 45mm, and seen in slices 3 to 7. The lesion appears to be abutting the deep margin. Towards the 12 o&amp;apos;clock end is a disruption through the lesion. There is no obvious necrosis. Inferiorly there is a haemorrhagic cavity (possibly previous site of biopsy), 18 x 15 x 15mm. Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - LS slice one showing 12 o&amp;apos;clock margin; 3 - RS slice two; 4 - RS slice three; 5 to 8 - full face of slice four; 9 to 15 - full face of slice five; 16 &amp;amp; 17 - RS slice seven; 18 - RS slice nine; 19 to 21 - RS slice ten; 22 to 23 - RS slice eleven with the cavity; 24 to 27 - LS slice twelve showing 6 o&amp;apos;clock margin including the cavity; 28 - for biobanking. Please see diagram &amp;amp; photo. RS. Specimen shown to Dr B Pride.    (TO:DN/ta 14/5/71)
B. Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Occipital bone hole at left&amp;quot;, consists a part of bone 75 x 38 x 16mm. There is a hole noted. Specimen for decal. Shown to Dr B Drews. Specimen consists of a piece of bone 74 x 38 x 10mm. In the middle of the bone is an area that appears to be soft and haemorrhagic up to 32 x 30mm. Resection margin inked. Blocks 1 &amp;amp; 2 - contains two TS. RS.  (TO:DN/ec 14/5/71)  (TO:DN/ta 20/5/71) Photos available.

MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr B Landry):
A. The oriented excision of markedly sun damaged skin to subcutis and skeletal muscle shows residual incompletely excised High grade sarcoma adjacent to a scar.

The tumour is located mostly in the deep aspect of the specimen tracking within the skeletal muscle and deep to the subcutis within fascia like dense fibrous tissue and focally extends into the dermis.

There is a variable appearance of the tumour. In most areas there is a more exansile circumscribed high grade component. It is moderate to marked cellular with a spindled to epithelioid appearance. The nuclear are irregular in shape, hyprochromatic and without any nucleoli. Mitoses including atypical forms are easily identified (38 mitoses/10HPF). There are widespread intermixed osteoclastic-type giant cells, haemorrhage and hemosiderophages in between the atypical tumour cells. Some geographic necrosis is present.

There is also a more low grade component lacking the osteoclastic giant cells and comprises more mildly to moderately atypical single spindle cells (13, 16 -22, 25).These neoplastic atypical cells track widely beyond the expansile high grade nodules along the fibrous septa. Focal haemosiderin is associated with it.

The morpholgy is similar to the previous excision (00I57282). At that time the tumour showed also a heterogeneous appearance. In the current excision there are also occasional mildly atypical stromal cells which at times are difficult to distinguish between neoplastic and reactive due to adjuvant therapy. No immunohistochemistry has been repeated.

There is no lymphovascular invasion and a couple of nerves are overrun, however no convincing perineural invasion is seen.

The high grade component with the multinucleated giant cell extends broadly towards the deep margin in numerous sections examined including up to the edge to the 9 o&amp;apos;clock peripheral margin (9). The 6 o&amp;apos;clock peripheral margin is involved by the low grade component (24, 25). The more superficial peripheral 12 o&amp;apos;clock, 3 o&amp;apos;clock and 9 o&amp;apos;clock margins appears clear by at least 5mm.

B. The representative sections of bone show widespread tumour in between the trabeculae resembling the osteoclast like giant cell rich high grade component from specimen A. It extends to the margin.

DIAGNOSIS:
A. Left para-spinal resection, oriented excision: High grade sarcoma, margins involved.

B. Occipital bone hole at left: High grade Sarcoma extending to margin. Additional sections to follow.
