SPR no: 18Q155174M
MRN no: 18615517
Site_name: EASTERN EYRE HEALTH AND AGED CARE - CLEVE CAMPUS
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report18Q15517 (18Q155174M) BRILLHART, IRWIN

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Peritonectomy redo for PMP.  Small bowel surface disease in small pot.  Anterior resection.  Wounds, uterus, Rt colon.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;ANTERIOR RESECTION, UTERUS&amp;quot;.  Multiple tissue fragments including:

A right hemicolectomy specimen including terminal ileum 60x30mm, caecum and ascending colon 200x130mm with mesentery and mesocolon up to 50mm.  There is a mucinous nodule at the anatomical site of the appendix measuring 60x30x30mm and has loosely attached fibrous cystic tissue measuring 30x20x15mm.  The serosa overlying the caecum and ascending colon is ragged with extensive adhesions.  The mucosal surfaces are unremarkable.  No polyps or tumours are identified.  The cut surface through the mucinous nodule reveals a multicystic lesion dissecting the underlying fat to approach the terminal ileum and caecal mucosa.

(1 proximal and distal margins; 2&amp;amp;3 ragged serosa on the ascending colon and caecum; 4-7 full face of mucinous lesion; 8-10 tumour with underlying fat with 9 being the tumour block for tissue banking; 11 loosely attached cystic mucinous area attached to the main lesion; 12&amp;amp;13 each six lymph nodes)

An anterior resection specimen measuring 60mm in length and up to 40mm in circumference. It has attached fat to a depth of 30mm and part of peritoneum fibrous tissue with overlying ragged haemorrhagic surface. The mucosal surface shows no evidence of polyps or tumours.  The specimen has a stapled end (inked blue) and opened end (inked black).

(14 LS of each longitudinal resection margin; 15 opened end margin with adjacent peritoneum; 16 RS ragged attached peritoneal strips)

A uterus with a total weight of 78g with no attached adnexa measuring 80x50x35mm.  The attached cervix  is 45x35x30mm.  The serosal surface is ragged with multiple adhesions and firm deposits.  Upon opening, an IUD device is present in-situ.  The endometrium is up to 3mm thick.  The myometrium is up to 20mm thick.  No polyps or fibroids are identified.

(17-22 full face of uterus [17-19 anterior from cervix to fundus, 20-22 posterior from cervix to fundus]; 23 ragged serosa at body of uterus)

Multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue consistent with fat with peritoneal covering measuring 200x200x30mm.  Extensive mucinous material is identified within these fragments.  The largest fragment contains part of muscle (skeletal muscle with ragged overlying peritoneal surface).

(24 fragments with muscle ; 25 fatty tissue; 26&amp;amp;27 representative mucinous smaller fragments).  RS (M-27)

B.  &amp;quot;SMALL BOWEL SURFACE DISEASE&amp;quot;.  Multiple fibrous pieces of tissue measuring 40x20x15mm with a glistening outer surface and scattered ill-defined possible mucinous material.  AE (M-2).

C.  &amp;quot;SURGICAL WOUND&amp;quot;.  Two fibrofatty pieces of tissue 105x30x20mm and 55x20x10mm.  No definite skin is attached.  Scattered firm fibrous areas (scar tissue) is identified amongst both fragments.  The cut surface reveals firm ragged haemorrhagic surface with no discrete lesions.

(1 RS larger fragment; 2 smaller fragment).  RS (M-2/ZH 26/10/2067 nh)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. D. Nakonechny)
A.  Sections show a low grade mucinous neoplasm comprising of extracellular lakes of dissecting mucin associated with low grade mucinous epithelium involving the serosa and mesentery of caecum and terminal ileum. The caecal and colonic mucosa show no focal abnormality.  Eleven local lymph nodes examined show reactive changes.

Sections through the anterior resection specimen show unremarkable rectal mucosa and wall.  Peritoneal fragments attached to the rectal specimen show deposits of low grade mucinous neoplasm comprising of dissecting extracellular mucin with small strips of low grade mucinous epithelium.

Sections through the uterus show unremarkable cervix.  The endometrium shows evidence of exogenous progestogenic effect in keeping with IUD effect.  The myometrium is unremarkable. A deposit of low grade mucinous neoplasm comprising of dissecting mucin with focal low grade mucinois epithelium is seen in the Pouch of Douglas.

Acellular deposits of mucin are also seen in peritoneal fragments attached to the body of the uterus and in separate fibrofatty and skeletal muscle fragments.

An unremarkable adrenal gland is also present.

No desmoplastic tumour invasion is seen.

B.  Sections show fibrofatty fragments lined by peritoneum with scattered acellular deposits of mucin.  There is no evidence of desmoplastic tumour invasion.

C.  Sections show fibrofatty tissue including areas of fibrosis associated with a chronic inflammatory infiltrate.  No mucinous deposits are seen. There is no evidence of malignancy.

DIAGNOSIS:
ANTERIOR RESECTION, UTERUS, RIGHT COLON :
-LOW GRADE MUCINOUS NEOPLASM RESULTING IN PSEUDOMYXOMA PERITONEI.

SMALL BOWEL SURFACE DISEASE :
-DEPOSITS OF ACELLULAR MUCIN.

SURGICAL WOUND :
-FIBROSIS AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATION.

27/10/2067 ank
