SPR no: 65N225496X
MRN no: 65522549
Site_name: GUNDAGAI DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report65N22549 (65N225496X) GORECZNY, BRIAN VINNY

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
CRC with peritoneal mets - peritonectomy.
Small intestine, wound, peritoneum, old ileocolic anastomosis, gallbladder.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;COLON, 7 SUBSEGMENT LIVER RESECTION, DUODENUM, GALLBLADDER, PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;.   Received in one jar, multiple tissue fragments including :

A segment of small bowel measuring 150x30mm with attached mesentery up to 50mm.  The outer surface is ragged with multiple adhesions.  There is a serosal deposit measuring 17x13mm located 45mm from the nearest longitudinal margin and 20mm from the nearest radial margin.  It has a firm white cut surface invading into the underlying mesentery abutting the abdominal wall with no involvement of the mucosa which is otherwise unremarkable with no polyps or tumour seen.  Within the mesentery, there is an involved lymph node measuring 15x10x6mm totally replaced by firm white tumour deposit.

(1&amp;amp;2 continuous slices nearest radial resection margin in relation to deposit; 3 involved lymph node in relation to radial margin;

A segment of bowel, possibly small bowel, measuring 330x50mm with attached mesentery up to 25mm.  The wall is thickened and oedematous.  The serosal surface has multiple areas of adhesions.  Minute deposits are identified on the wall (up to 10 deposits) measuring 1-2mm involving the adjacent mesenteric serosa.  No definite mucosal involvement is identified.  The nearest deposit to margin measures 4mm and is located 9mm from the longitudinal margin macroscopically.  No luminal polyps or tumours are identified.

4 longitudinal resection  margin with adjacent deposit; 5 bowel wall deposit with nearest radial resection margin; 6 bowel wall and serosal deposits;

A segment of bowel with anastomosis between small bowel 70x35mm and large bowel 195x60mm.  The large bowel has omentum attached along its length to a maximum width of 450mm.  The mesentery and mesocolon are attached along the specimen to a maximum width of 70mm.  At the area of anastomosis there is an adherent segment of small bowel measuring 80x50mm with  a central area of serosal deposits surrounding multiple adhesions. Multiple metastatic deposits are identified across the specimen including serosal deposits on the mesocolon up to four measuring 15-35mm in maximum dimension, up to ten deposits on the attached omentum measuring 20-40mm in maximum diameter.  The cut surface of the adherent small bowel reveals a serosal tumour measuring 25x25x20mm invading into the bowel wall to ulcerate the overlying mucosa.  The remainder of the bowel shows no polyps or definite tumours.

7 small bowel adherent segments resection margins; 8 origin of the serosal deposit at small bowel segment; 9-11 continuous slices small bowel lumen involvement by tumour; 12 area of anastomosis; 13 RS largest deposit at mesocolon; 14 four involved lymph nodes; 15 RS of largest omental deposit [tumour block for tissue banking];
A gallbladder measuring 105x27mm.  The serosal surface is ragged, focally haemorrhagic with one nodule identified at the neck 8x7x5mm.  The wall is up to 3mm thick.  The mucosal surface is green and granular.  One black calculus is identified at the fundus 17x15x10mm.


16 &amp;amp; 17  Gallbladder

Seven separate segments of capsular liver 14-27mm.  They weigh in total 7g.  The capsular surface of all fragments shows deposits with firm white cut surface.  The margins are inked blue.  The lesions are abutting the surgical margin macroscopically.

18 RS largest three liver segments; 19&amp;amp;20 each RS smaller segment involvement;

Multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue with glistening surfaces consistent with peritoneal strips and multiple smaller nodules measuring 200x150x50mm in total.  There is confluent involvement by minute and variable sizes of firm white deposits (up to 30) 3-25mm in maximum diameter.

21-24 RS peritoneal deposits). RS (M-24/ZH 25/8/2067 nh)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. R. Marcotte)
The first small bowel segment wall including the mucosa is unremarkable. In its mesentery there is a 12mm deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma showing cribriforming and angulated glands with glandular necrosis. This extends to the serosal surface. It is 30mm clear of the radial mesenteric resection margin. There are five lymph nodes present, two of which are involved by metastatic adenocarcinoma.
The second segment of small bowel shows acute serosal inflammation and fibrin.  There are thick fibrous adhesions on the serosal surface. There is no malignancy in this segment.
The ileocolic anastomosis site shows metastatic adenocarcinoma in the mesentery of the small bowel. Lymphovascular invasion is easily identified. The tumour invades into the wall of the small bowel and ulcerates into the mucosa. The anastomosis site is involved by adenocarcinoma with tumour glands seen within vascular spaces of both the small and large bowel mucosa. Tumour deposits are also present within the mesocolon, the largest of which is at least 20mm.  There are three lymph nodes identified in the mesocolon, two of which contain metastatic adenocarcinoma.
There are also tumour deposits present within the omental fat. The gallbladder wall shows features of chronic cholecystitis. Within the mesentery of the gallbladder and on the serosal surface there is a large deposit of adenocarcinoma, at least 10mm across.  Tumour glands are present at a diathermied margin within the gallbladder serosa.
The liver fragments show extensive deposits of adenocarcinoma, up to 11mm across, many of which are involving the resection margin of the fragments. The sampled peritoneal slices contain metastatic adenocarcinoma. In one of these slices, tumour is present at the diathermied margin.

DIAGNOSIS:
COLON, 7 SUBSEGMENT LIVER RESECTION, DUODENUM, GALLBLADDER, PERITONEAL DISEASE:
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA  IN SMALL BOWEL MESENTERY, TWO SMALL BOWEL LYMPH NODES, ANASTOMOSIS SITE, TWO LARGE BOWEL LYMPH NODES, GALLBLADDER MESENTERY, OMENTUM, PERITONEUM AND LIVER
- SEROSAL ADHESIONS
- CHRONIC CHOLECYSTITIS AND CHOLELITHIASIS
28/8/2067 cy
