SPR no: 85G5861086
MRN no: 852586
Site_name: GIN GIN HOSPITAL
Facility_id: MR
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report85G58610 (85G5861086) JANSON, DENITA

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Fibroid uterus ?leiomyosarcoma. Uterus, tubes and ovaries.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;UTERUS, BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES&amp;quot;. Uterus with attached cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries. Specimen was received partially opened. It weighs 618g, the uterus with attached cervix measures 130mm superior to inferior, 150mm intracornual distance, ectocervix measures 25x15mm with an os 5mm. It is cream coloured and unremarkable. Serosa shows a bulging nodule measuring  7mm maximum dimension posteriorly. It is otherwise smooth. Arising in the anterior myometrium is a large nodule with a tan fleshy cut surface, partially haemorrhagic, partially necrotic and pushing the endometrium posteriorly. The nodule measures 110x90x80mm. In some areas the tumour gives a whorled appearance.

(1 posterior cervix; 2 posterior lower uterine segment; 3&amp;amp;4 posterior endometrium in relation to tumour; 5 further section posterior lower uterine segment; 6 anterior cervix; 7 anterior lower uterine segment; 8-10 anterior myometrium including tumour; 11-15 further sections of tumour [12 shows areas of haemorrhage; 13 necrosis; 15 relation to anterior margin]; 16 subserosal leiomyoma noted posteriorly).

Right ovary and fallopian tube weigh 11g and ovary measures 25x15x5mm. Fallopian tube is 40mm in length with maximum diameter of 7mm. The serosal surface of the ovary shows a tan area measuring  maximum 2mm. Fallopian tube serosal surface shows a paratubal cyst measuring  8mm in maximum dimension and is filled with clear serous fluid. The inner wall lining is smooth. On sectioning through the ovary it has a firm normal appearing cut surface.

(17 right ovary; 18 right fallopian tube).

The left ovary and fallopian tube together weigh 8g. Fallopian tube measures 40mm in length with maximum diameter of 5mm. Ovary is 20x10x8mm. Serosal surfaces are unremarkable.

(19 left ovary; 20 left fallopian tube). RS (M-20/MC/ht).

B. &amp;quot;PERITONEAL BIOPSY&amp;quot;. One piece of fibrofatty tissue with an attached cyst measuring 8mm in maximum dimension. The cyst is up to 5mm and filled with clear serous fluid. AE (1-1/MC/ht).

MICROSCOPIC:    (Dr. W. Favaro)
A.  The ectocervix and endocervix are unremarkable.  The endometrium is weakly proliferative.  The myometrium shows a large smooth muscle tumour which shows spindled areas and undifferentiated areas.  It has increased cellularity, moderate to severe nuclear atypia with tumour giant cells, atypical mitotic figures, zones of coagulative necrosis, frank anaplasia, and 10 mitoses per 10hpf.  The tumor is confined to the myometrium and does not extend into the endometrium.  It is at least 10mm from the paracervical resection margins. There is no lymphovascular invasion.  The tumour does not invade the cervix.


The right ovary shows a simple inclusion cyst. The right fallopian tube shows a benign paratubal cyst.  The left ovary also shows a simple inclusion cyst and th left fallopian tube is unremarkable.  The advancing edge of the tumour shows mainly a pushing front with some infiltrating tumour cells present infiltrating into the adjacent myometrium.

Immunohistochemistry:
The well-differentiated parts of the tumour are positive for SMA and Desmin, which are negative in the poorly differentiated areas.  CD10 is negative.  Ki67 is around 40%.

B.  Sections of fibrofatty tissue show a benign mesothelial inclusion cyst with no atypia and no evidence of malignancy.

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  UTERUS, BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES:
- LEIOMYOSARCOMA WITH UNDIFFERENTIATED AREAS
- CONFINED TO THE UTERUS, CLEAR OF MARGINS

B.  PERITONEAL BIOPSY:
- BENIGN MESOTHELIAL  INCLUSION CYSTS.

2/8/2066 ank
