SPR no: 91O1729540
MRN no: 91517295
Site_name: KURRI KURRI DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report91O17295 (91O1729540) JOLISSAINT, JACK STEVE

*SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ATTACHED*

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
CRC peritonectomy.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;SPLEEN, TAIL OF PANCREAS, DISTAL GASTRECTOMY, COLON, GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, DIAPHRAGM&amp;quot;.  Consists of a gallbladder.  A segment of large bowel, stomach, pancreas, spleen, omentum and adherent muscle received enbloc and segment of large bowel consistent with rectum.

Gallbladder measures 60mm in length x 33mm maximum diameter.  The serosa is smooth. The wall is up to 2-3mm.  Mucosa is granular green.  No stones are found within the lumen.

(1 cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 2 body and fundus)

Specimen received en bloc.  Omentum measures 375x145x20mm.  The stomach lesser curve is 70mm, greater curve is 230mm.  Lesser curve fat is 50x30mm.  The pancreas measures 40x30x20mm.  Spleen weighs 168g and measures 125x75x32mm. Colon is 105mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm.

Omentum there is a large omental nodule measuring 35x25x30mm.  On sectioning through this area, it has a pale white firm cut surface.

(3&amp;amp;4 omental nodule)

The colon, pancreas, spleen, stomach and omentum are infiltrated by a tumour which appears to be arising from the colonic mucosa extending through the wall and infiltrating directly into the stomach mucosa, splenic parenchyma, pancreas, adherent omentum and adherent muscular tissue ? diaphragm.The tumour has a pale white cut surface.  It measures 90mm in length with a maximum circumferential diameter of 75mm.

Stomach - Proximal margin is inked blue, distal margin black.  The tumour within the gastric mucosa is 160mm from distal margin and 10mm from proximal margin. The pancreatic resection margin is inked red. The adherent muscular tissue ? diaphragm resection margin inked green. The colonic margin closest to tumour is inked blue, furthest is inked black.  The tumour is 40mm from the closest inked blue margin and 110mm from the furthest inked margin.  Appears to be less than 3mm from radial margin.

(5 distal margin of stomach; 6 proximal margin of stomach; 7 normal gastric mucosa; 8&amp;amp;9 full face section of pancreas [8 shows involvement of gastric mucosa]; 10&amp;amp;11 adherent muscle [? diaphragm] with 10 including colonic wall; 12 tumour in relation to spleen and ?diaphragm; 13 tumour in relation to spleen, ?diaphragm, and adherent omentum; 14 tumour in relation to adherent omentum and ?diaphragm; 15 normal splenic parenchyma; 16 edge of tumour closest to blue inked margin in colonic mucosa; 17&amp;amp;18 colonic involvement of tumour with direct extension into stomach; 19&amp;amp;20 edge of tumour closest to black inked margin, it shows extension into adherent omentum; 21 colonic margins; 22 ? splenic hilar node; 23 ?lesser curve node/? tumour mass; 24-32 mesocolic nodes [24 one node bisected, 25 one node bisected, 26 one node trisected; 27 ?five nodes; 28-32 one node each [13 possible lymph nodes identified])

Separate segment of large bowel consistent with rectum.  It measures 205mm in length with a maximum diameter of 20mm.  The mesocolic fat is up to 70mm wide. Proximal margin is inked blue, distal black.  On opening there is a pedunculated polyp 75mm from proximal margin and 215mm from distal margin.  It measures 12mm maximum dimension.  There is a tumour deposit noted within the mesorectum measuring 45x25x15mm.
(33 proximal margin; 34 distal margin including tumour within mesorectum; 35&amp;amp;36 pedunculated polyp; 37 tumour within mesocolic fat; 38-40 possible nodes [38 one lymph node bisected, 39 one lymph node bisected, 40 one lymph node bisected]). RS (M-40/MC/ank)

MACROSCOPIC FINDINGS SUMMARY
Operation type:  Transverse colectomy (including adherent organs -pancreas, stomach and spleen).
Specimen length:  105mm
Tumour site:  Transverse colon
Tumour size:  90mm
Distance from margins:
40mm - closest margin, 110mm -  furthest margin
Radial:  Less than 3mm.
Peritoneal reflection:  Not applicable
Mesorectal integrity:  Not applicable
Extramuscular spread:  Direct invasion into adjacent organs
Tumour description: Infiltrative with pale white cut surface
Overlying serosa: Firm pale / bulged by tumour.  Does not appear to breach it.

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr Y Pflugh)
Sections of the gallbladder show features consistent with chronic cholecystitis.

Sections of the omental mass show moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma including cribriform pattern glands with central necrosis and columnar cell morphology.  Adjacent nests and cords of cells and single cells with eosinophilic to vacuolated cytoplasm are seen and with more nuclear pleomorphism including vesicular chromatin and nucleoli.  There is a desmoplastic stromal reaction.

Sections of the tumour mass from the en block resection of stomach, colon, pancreas, spleen and presumed portion of diaphragm, demonstrate moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with similar appearances to those seen in the omental tumour mass.  The tumour largely obliterates the colon in the sections examined and there is direct infiltration within the adjacent omentum into the stomach with infiltration through all layers of the muscularis into the submucosa and mucosa.  There is also direct invasion into the pancreas and also into the splenic parenchyma and adjacent perihilar adipose tissue.  There is direct infiltration into adherent skeletal muscle that likely represents a portion of diaphragm.

Twelve transverse mesocolic lymph nodes are identified and in two of these there is metastatic carcinoma.  Splenic perihilar lymph nodes are identified and show reactive changes only.

A tumour deposit is seen in lesser curve adipose tissue (lesser omentum).

Carcinoma is approximatrely 2mm clear of the diathermied margin of the skeletal muscle / diaphragm.

Sections of the separate segment of rectum show a mesorectal deposit of moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma similar to that previously described. The carcinoma is present at the inked mesorectal margin.  In addition, there is  a tubulovillous adenoma of the rectosigmoid colon.  Three perirectal lymph nodes show reactive changes.

Immunohistochemistry:  CK7 is negative. CK20 and CDX-2 are positive. MSI immunohistochemistry pending (Block 10).

Comment:  There is moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with morphological appearances consistent with colorectal origin.  The main tumour mass involves the en block  resection including the segment of transverse colon with direct involvement of the adjacent mesentery / omentum and with direct invasion of the stomach, spleen, pancreas and diaphragm. A separate tumour mass is present in the greater omentum, and in lesser curve adipose tissue, and a further separate tumour mass is present in the mesorectal adipose tissue.  The appearances may represent a primary tumour of the transverse colon.  Clinical correlation is required.

See also synoptic report below:

Tumour type:  Adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade:  High grade (poorly differentiated)

Depth of invasion:  T4b:  Tumour directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures

Peritoneal surface involvement:  Present

Tumour infiltrating lymphocytes: Low density (&amp;lt;5/hpf)

Excision Margins:
Closest:  40mm
Furthest:  110mm
Radial:  Involved  (tumour at margin).  Metastatic tumour deposit at mesorectal fat is present at the inked mesorectal surgical margin.
Donuts:  Not received

Lymph nodes:
Number positive:  2
Total number:  13
Apical node:  Not identified

Intramural vein invasion:  Not identified

Extramural vein invasion:  Not identified

Small vessel (lymphatic) invasion:  Suspicious

Perineural invasion:  Not identified

Distant metastases:  Present.  Sites:  Omentum, mesorectum

Other findings:
Polyps:  Tubulovillous adenoma

Ancillary studies:

Mismatch repair enzymes, Immunostains:  to follow

Microsatellite instability (MSI):  not tested

Synthesis/stage (AJCC/UICC TNM 7):

TNM stage:  pT4b  pN1  pM1c

Stage grouping: IVc
Residual tumour:  R1:  Microscopic margin involvement

Comments:    See text above

DIAGNOSIS:
COLON, STOMACH, OMENTUM, PANCREAS, SPLEEN, RECTUM:
- HIGH GRADE ADENOCARCINOMA

27/3/2067 nh

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (4/4/67):
Immunostains for MSI proteins (Owens & Minor CPC Pathology; block:  10)

MLH1:  Positive staining present.
PMS2:  Positive staining present.
MSH2:  Positive staining present.
MSH6:  Positive staining present.

Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme.

Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible.

4/4/2067 cy
