Episode No:  89K859208P
8948592.BVP

NOICE, VERINA 
Lab No:  89K85920
North Pine
DAYLESFORD  Australian Capital Territory  4482
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  16/3/2013
Sex:  F
Collected: Unknown at :
Location:  CORONARYCARE UNIT-ALEXANDRA DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR WILBERT FEDERICO TROCCHIO
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Right hemithyroid for frozen section ??papillary carcinoma.  Rt thyroid nodule - frozen section confirms papillary Ca - progressed to total thyroidectomy and central neck dissection.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "(R) hemithyroid" consists of thyroid lobe 35 x 25 x 10mm.  In the mid thyroid there is a 4mm fibrous nodule. 
Blocks:  1- frozen section; 2 to 6 - remainder of the thyroid lobe from superior to inferior.  AE.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Papillary carcinoma.  
Phone result to Dr U Laurendeau by Dr U Sowande at 10.30 on 03.05.13.
B.  Specimen labelled "(L) hemithyroid" consists of a thyroid lobe 33 x 27 x 22mm.  The tracheal surface is inked blue and the other surfaces inked black.  There is a 4mm pale nodule in the superior pole of the lobe (block 1).  All embedded fromsuperior to inferior in 7 blocks.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Right central neck dissection" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue 27 x 10 x 7mm.  Specimen is sliced a lymph node is not identified.  AE 1 block.
D.  Specimen labelled "Left central neck dissection" consists of a 5 x 5 x 4mm nodule with attached fatty tissue 15 x 8 x 3mm.  
Blocks:  1- nodule; 2 - attached fatty tissue.  AE.  (TO:  ZB:  PV/mm 7.8.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr U Davisson): 
A.   Sections confirm a papillary carcinoma of thyroid. This measures 5mm diameter. It consists of papillae and follicular structures within a dense fibrous stroma.  It extends a short distance into the surrounding gland at the periphery, with an irregular margin.  No lymphovascular invasion is identified.  The tumour is completely excised and does not reach the thyroid capsule.  The lobe elsewhere has a few small nodules but is otherwise unremarkable.  
B.   Sections show thyroid tissue. There are a few small nodules but no significant abnormality isseen. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
C.   Sections show fat with an unremarkable parathyroid gland and two lymph nodes.  The larger node is almost completely replaced by metastatic papillary carcinoma of thyroid. This node measures 3.5mm diameter. There is no extranodal spread.  
D.  Sections show a lymph node with mild reactive changes.  No tumour is seen. (ec) 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.   Right hemithyroid:  Papillary carcinoma, 5mm diameter. 
B.   Left hemithyroid:  No significant abnormality.  
C.   Right central neck dissection:  
1.    Metastatic papillary carcinoma in one node (1/2).
2.    Normal parathyroid gland. 
D.   Left central neck dissection:  No tumour (0/1). 

