Episode No:  02U9932778
0279932.TUW

HERSHEY, ESTEBAN 
Lab No:  02U99327
Tippendell
COBDEN  TAS  3698
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  27/2/1994
Sex:  M
Collected: 6/3/2063 at :
Location:  ACT-TRESILLIAN FAMILY CARE CENTRE - WILLOUGHBY
DR DUSTIN HERMAN PINKTON
Distribution:   FILE-COPY, DR RADU SPILIS,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CONSULTATION/REVIEW REPORT:  (24.3.63)

CLINICAL:
?Metastatic pancreatic cancer.  Pancreatic head mass.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Liver lesion segment four" consists of a piece of tan/red tissue 8 x 5 x 5mm.  Bisected, one section for frozen section, rest informalin.  
Blocks: 1 - Remainder of frozen section tissue; 2 - rest of tissue.  AE 2 blocks.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Liver lesion segment two" consists of pale tan tissue measuring 5 x 4 x 4mm.  AE for frozen section. 
Blocks: 1 - remainder of frozen section tissue. AE 1 block.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Favour benign (bile duct hamartoma).
Result to Dr Willian (reg) by Dr L Mysliwiec (shown to WE & NV) at 2.20pm on the 4/1/13.  
  
C.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of a gallbladder 54 x 25mm.  On opening it contains multiple gallstones 5 to 10mm in diameter and biliary sludge.  There is a 10 x 10mm calcified lesion is seen in the fundus.  The gallbladder is otherwise unremarkable.  
C1 - LS of fundus for frozen section; C2 - 2LS of the fundus for frozen section, rest in formalin.
Blocks: 1 - rest of frozen section C1; 2- rest of frozen section C2; 3 - shave surgical neck margin and ?small possible cystic duct lymph node; 4 & 5 - TS body; 6 - 11 LS fundus.    

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Fundal dystrophic calcification.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 
Result to Dezarn (anaesthetics fellow) by Dr L Yuricic (shown to FN) at 3.45pm on the 4/1/13
  
D.  Specimen labelled "Pancreatic mass biopsy" consists of a core biopsy measuring 16mm.  AE for frozen section.  Remainder of frozen section tissue AE block 1.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Carcinoma cells present.
Result to Betancourth (anaesthetics fellow) by Dr L Secky (shown to UC/PW) at 3.45pm on 4/1/13.  
 
E.  Specimen labelled "Pancreatic mass biopsy" consists of a core biopsy measuring 12mm in length.   AE 1 block.   (TO: VZ; QK/Ta 9/3/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Millage):
A. Sections show a circumscribed lesion in the liver composed of multiple dilated, angulated tubules.  The nuclear morphology is difficult to assess due to diathermy and frozen section artefact. While the majority of tubules are lined by epithelium with bland ovoid nuclei, in some areas the tubules appear to be lined by cells with overlapping, irregularly distributed, hyperchromatic nuclei with nuclear irregularities. Bile tinged mucin is present in the some of the lumens. There is no bile present within the lesion.
The adjacent liver show changes in keeping with acute cholestasis.
COMMENT:
The findings are of an atypical glandular proliferation. While the general consensus in the department favoured a bile duct hamartoma with reactive changes, some felt a well differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma could not be excluded. Slides will be sent to Professor LUCAS WOODLING, EASTERN EYRE HEALTH AND AGED CARE - COWELL CAMPUS Hospital for an expert opinion.
B. Sections show a circumscribed lesion composed of multiple anastomosing tubules with narrow lumens, lined by epithelium with bland ovoid nuclei.  Eosinophilic material is focally present in the lumens and epithelial cells. No bile is present in the lesion. The findings are of a benign biliary lesion, with features favouring a bile duct adenoma.
C. Sections show gall bladder wall with chronic inflammation, smooth muscle hypertrophy, focal intestinal metaplasia and Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses, in keeping with chronic cholecystitis.  An area of dystrophic calcification is present in the fundus.  There is no convincing evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.
The cystic duct lymph nodeis unremarkable.
D and E. Sections show a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.  The lesion is composed of irregularly shaped glands lined by tumour cells with marked nuclear atypia, surrounded by desmoplastic stroma.  Poorlydifferentiated, single tumour cells are also present. The tumour cells are positive for CK7 and TTF-1. PSA and CK20 are negative.
COMMENT
The findings would favour an adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. TTF-1 staining is unusual in pancreatic adenocarcinomas and a metastasis from the lung cannot be completely excluded. Correlation with imaging findings is recommended.
DIAGNOSIS
A.Liver lesion segment four:
- Atypical glandular proliferation, favour bile duct hamartoma with reactive changes (see comment)
- Slides sent to Professor FOSTER SIT, CENTRAL GIPPSLAND HEALTH SERVICE (SALE) Hospital for an expert opinion
B. Liver lesion segment two: benign biliary lesion, favour bile duct adenoma
C. Gallbladder: chronic cholecystitis and cholelithiasis
D and E. Pancreatic mass biopsy: moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, favour pancreatic primary
CONSULTATION/REVIEW REPORT:  (24.3.63)

Report from BOOLEROO CAMPUS Hospital reported by:  Prof PATRICIA VANBLARICUM:
I agree with you and Haroun that the liver lesion biopsies in specimen A ("Liver lesion segment 4") is a benign bile duct proliferation.  In my opinion it is best classified as a biliary hamartoma (while the lesion in specimen B from segment 2 is a peribiliary gland hamartoma/bile duct adenoma).
The lesion in specimen A extendsto the resection margin and has areas distorted by thermal artefact but in the better preserved regions there is minimal cytological atypia.  The cells are arranged in relatively well-formed ducts/tubules and the lesion is well circumscribed.  The cells lining the ducts display little anisonucleosis or nuclear pleomorphism, nucleoli are generally inconspicuous, mitoses scant and cytoplasmic borders are well defined.  This contrasts with the pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma present in specimens B & E ('Pancreatic mass biopsy").
Regards,
VINCENZO LITKE
SUMMARY
See above microscopic report.

