 056313.BJB
NELLIGAN, PEARLIE CHRISSY
42U73323

Last edited : 30/1/2062		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
BRCA 1 (+).  Bilateral prophylactic mastectomy.  Short superior, long lateral, medium medial.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right breast; long lateral, short superior" consists of a total mastectomy with three sutures for orientation measuring 200mm (medial-lateral) x 150mm (superior-inferior) x 30mm (superficial-deep).  The nipple and areola complex measures 30 x 30mm.  The anterior margin is inkedblue and the posterior margin black.  On section, behind the nipple are dilated ducts where the parenchyma has a fibrotic appearance.  No discrete lesions are identified.
Blocks:  1 - nipple and areola complex; 2 - fibrous area behind nipple; 3 to 5 - representative sections upper inner quadrant; 6 to 8 - representative sections upper outer quadrant; 9 to 11 - representative sections lower inner quadrant; 12 to 14 - representativesections lower outer quadrant.
B.  Specimen labelled "Left breast; long lateral, short superior" consistsof a left mastectomy with two sutures for orientation measuring 180mm (medial-lateral) x 150mm (superior-inferior) x 20mm (superficial-deep).  The nipple and areola complex measures 30 x 30mm.  The skin surface is unremarkable.  The superficial margin is inked blue and the deep margin black.  The parenchyma has a fibrofatty appearance.  No discrete lesions are identified.
Blocks:  1 - nipple and areola complex; 2 to 4 - representative sections upper inner quadrant; 5 to 7 - representative sections lower inner quadrant; 8 to 10 - representative sections upper outer quadrant; 11 to 13 - representative sections lower outer quadrant.    (QF/cc 25/1/62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Baggerly): 
A. The sections of breast tissue show mainly fatty tissue.  There is dilatation of some of the ducts, patchy mild fibrosis and cystic change.  Focal mild ductal epithelial hyperplasia without atypia and foci of sclerosing adenosis are also seen. Patchy chronic inflammation is noted adjacent to some of the ducts and lobules. Scattered small benign lobular calcifications are present. There is no evidence of malignancy.
B. The sections of breast tissue show a spectrum of benign proliferative changes including a complex sclerosing lesion, small tubular adenoma, small intraductal papilloma, columnar cell lesions, cystic change, apocrine metaplasia, fibrosis and moderate ductal epithelial hyperplasia without atypia.  Some of the lobules show secretory changes.  There is no evidence of malignancy. Representative slides have been shown to A/Prof WERNER SCHWANEBECK.
CONCLUSION
A,B. Left and right breasts: Fibrocystic changes, benign proliferative lesions.

