
Episode No:  85B749295R
850749.FYP

BUNKLEY, COURTNEY 
Lab No:  85B74929
Saint Bartholomew
CHURCHILL  Queensland  4551
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  26/6/1980
Sex:  M
Collected: 28/11/2012 at 11:15
Location:  ACUTE STROKE UNIT-THE SUTHERLAND HOSPITAL
DR WESLEY SHELDON PORE
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Hx of (L) thyroid nodule FNA papillary thyroid Ca for total thyroidectomy & central neck dissection.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left thyroid" consists of a hemithyroid with attached isthmus 40 x 38 x 35mm weighing 13.1g.  The tracheal surface is inked black and the remainder of the capsule is inked blue.  There is a suture attached to the superior pole and a further suture attached to the inferior pole.  The majority of the specimen is taken up by a firm cream tumour which appears to come close to all tracheal margins measuring 27 x 27 x 17mm.  
Blocks:  1 to 8 - thyroid gland AE; 9 - isthmus BAE.
B.  Specimen labelled "Right thyroid lobe" consists of a thyroid lobe with two sutures attached measuring 35 x 25 x 20mm and weighing 6.6g.  The tracheal margin is inked black and the remainder of the capsule is inked blue.  The cut surface appears unremarkable.  AE six blocks.
C.  Specimen labelled "Tracheal gland" consists of two pieces of fatty tissue 10 and 28mm.  Multiple ?lymph nodes are identified from 2 to 5mm.  AE one block. 
(QK/cc  1/1/62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr V Putz): 
A.  Sections of the left hemithyroid show a 27mm papillary carcinoma of classic type which occupies most of the left lobe.  There is focal extrathyroidal spread to skeletal muscle and other soft tissue, however the tracheal and peripheral margins of the left thyroid appear clear of tumour by 0.1 to 0.2mm.  Foci of lymphovascular are seen at the periphery of the tumour.  No other deposit of papillary carcinoma is identified and there is no thyroiditis.
One of the three left perithyroidal lymph nodes contains a depositof metastatic papillary carcinoma.  No parathyroid glands identified.
B.  The right hemithyroid has been totally blocked and no tumour is identified.  there is a patchy lymphocytic thyroiditis and a single perithyroidal lymphnode identified is uninvolved.  No parathyroid glands identified.
C.  Sections show three normal lymph nodes plus one normal parathyroid gland.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left hemithyroid:  
-	Papillary carcinoma, size 27mm, classic type, focal lymphovascular invasion;
-	Tracheal and capsular margins clear of tumour (0.1 to 0.2mm);
-	Metastatic papillary carcinoma in one of three perithyroidal lymph nodes;
-	No parathyroids identified.
B.  Right hemithyroid:
-	No evidence of papillary carcinoma;
-	Patchy lymphocytic thyroiditis;
-	Normal lymph node, no parathyroid identified.
C.  Central neck dissection:
-	Lymph nodes x 3 negative for tumour;
-parathyroid gland.

