SPR no: 49V354773U
MRN no: 49835477
Site_name: NANANGO HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report49V35477 (49V354773U) WEITZNER, GERMAN

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Mesothelioma. Gallbladder, appendix, omentum, abdo wall and diaphragmatic peritoneum.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, APPENDIX, PERITONEAL DISEASE, UMBILICUS&amp;quot;. Received multiple tissue fragments within the same jar that appears to be involved by disseminated peritoneal disease. Those fragments include:

A gallbladder measuring 90x35mm. The outer surface includes multiple ragged areas over the neck and the fundus area measuring 20x15mm and 10x5mm respectively. The wall is up to 4mm thick. The mucosal surface is green and granular. No calculi are identified.

(1 cystic duct; 2 neck with overlying ragged serosal surface; 3 TS body and LS fundus).

An appendix measuring 55x10mm with attached mesoappendix and fatty tissue to a maximum width of 60mm. The serosal surface appears to be extensively involved by minute white deposits along with the peritoneal surface of the adjacent fatty tissue. This is causing adhesions and coiling of the appendix lumen. The appendix wall is thickened up to 4mm. Focal involvement of the overlying serosal deposits to the wall is identified at the body area. The lumen cut surface is unremarkable.

(4 base [two LS and one TS]; 5 two TS mid; 6 tip [one LS and one TS]).

Received an ellipse of skin 75x30mm with underlying tissue to a depth of 50mm containing an umbilicus 20x5mm. The deep margin is a peritoneal surface that is ragged and haemorrhagic over an area of 20x15mm involved with peritoneal disease. Surgical margins are inked blue. The cut surface reveals firm fibrous tissue towards the deep margin of the specimen.

(7&amp;amp;8 continuous one TS across the umbilicus).

Received fibrofatty piece of tissue consistent with omentum measuring 350x170x40mm and appears to be extensively involved by fibrotic lobulated  nodules on its outer surface (omental cake). The cut surface reveals disseminated hard white lesions across the specimen. Also received other piece of omentum measuring 300x150x35mm which appears to be partially involved by tumour (omental cake), over an area of 145x70x40mm. The cut surface confirms the involvement with firm white deposits arising from serosal surface and invading into the underlying deep tissue.

(9-11 RS omental involvement larger fragment; 12 involved area of the second fragment; 13 tissue banking tumour).

Received two fibrous pieces of tissue consistent with peritoneal strip measuring  470x180x20mm and 300x90x25mm. The peritoneal surface is thickened and fibrotic and appears to be involved by disseminated serosal disease causing adhesions.

(14&amp;amp;15 RS peritoneal disease of the larger strip; 16&amp;amp;17 RS peritoneal disease smaller strip).

Received multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue most of which are covered by peritoneal surface measuring 300x200x25mm in aggregate. Most of the fragments  appear to be involved by minute peritoneal deposits.

(18&amp;amp;19 RS of the smaller fragments). RS (M-19/ZH/ht).

MICROSCOPIC:     (Dr. L Pescatore)
All of the tissue pieces examined show features of involvement by epithelioid malignant mesothelioma. The gallbladder shows mild chronic cholecystitis, together with serosal involvement by epitheloid mesothelioma. The mesothelioma shows tubular and papillary architecture in a desmoplastic and fibrotic stroma. The mesothelioma involves the serosal surface in multiple foci.

Sections of appendix also show multifocal involvement of the serosal surface by epithelioid malignant mesothelioma. There is focal minimal invasion into the underlying wall of appendix. There is no acute inflammation of the appendix. An incidental diverticulum of appendix is noted at the tip.

Sections of umbilicus show that the epidermis and dermis are unremarkable. The subcutaneous fatty tissue shows an irregular area of active fibrosis and fat necrosis, suggestive of previous surgery or trauma to the site. No involvement by mesothelioma is seen in the representative tissue from the umbilicus.

Representative sections of omentum show multiple deposits of epithelioid mesothelioma on the surface of omentum, and focally invading into the underlying adipose tissue, with chronic inflammation. Focal possible lymphovascular invasion is seen. No spindle cell or sarcomatoid component is identified.

All of the sampled fragments of peritoneum show involvement by epithelioid mesothelioma, largely on the peritoneal surface, but including focal invasion into the underlying fat.

Immunohistochemical stains (Block 11 from the omentum) show positive staining for Calretinin, HBME-1, WT1, EMA and Cam 5.2. Immunohistochemical stains for TTF-1, CEA, BEREP4, HERA and CD15 are negative. These results are in keeping with epithelioid malignant mesothelioma.

DIAGNOSIS:
GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, APPENDIX, PERITONEAL DISEASE, UMBILICUS:
- MUTLIFOCAL INVOLVEMENT OF THE SEROSAL SURFACE OF THE GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, APPENDIX, AND PERITONEUM BY EPITHELIOID MALIGNANT MESOTHELIOMA.  FOR DETAILS, PLEASE SEE TEXT.

13/9/2066 cy
