SPR no: 08T282188T
MRN no: 0872821
Site_name: WESTERN HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report08T28218 (08T282188T) NISHIMOTO, ELIAS

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Mesothelioma.  Bowel obstruction.
Small bowel / colon + abdominal wall.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;SMALL BOWEL, COLON, ABDOMINAL WALL&amp;quot;.  Received an en bloc specimen segment of large bowel 220x60 mm  with anastomosis line to a segment of small bowel 210x40mm. There  are attached disrupted mesocolon and mesentery adherent to central specimen up to 60mm in length adjacent to a segment of skeletal muscle (abdominal wall) 70x35x15mm. Possible fatty tissue consistent with omentum is adherent measuring 100x75x20mm.

There is confluent involvement of the serosal surfaces of large bowel, small bowel mesentery by firm white tumour  which  disseminate along the serosal surface of the specimen and extensively invades into the adjacent fat, the bowel wall to abut the underlying mucosal surface of small and large bowel. Mesenteric lymph node are macroscopically involved and replaced by tumor deposits. There is tumor invasion into the abdominal wall segment and the submitted possible omentum. The tumor is difficult to delineate but the maximum tumor diameter is 160 mm. The tumor deposits are clear of the longitunal and radial resection margins. No polyps or intraluminal bowel tumours are identified.  The abdominal wall resection margin is inked black.

(1 proximal and distal resection margins; 2&amp;amp;3 continuous slice abdominal wall involvement; 4&amp;amp;5 continuous slice serosal nodule with small bowel involvement; 6 large bowel involvement; 7 tumour tracking the peritoneal surfaces with adjacent bowel wall [tumour block for tissue banking]; 8 tumour into fat ?omentum; 9&amp;amp;10 each four lymph nodes within mesentery).  RS (M-10/ZH 23/11/2067 nh)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr B Sears)
The sections show tumour present within fibrofatty soft tissues including mesentery/mesocolon of the bowel.  The tumour broadly infiltrates into both small and large bowel into the muscularis propria and also into submucosa and in the small bowel segment there is also infiltration into the lamina propria.  Broad areas of necrosis are identified.  The tumour shows variable morphology including glandular-tubular structures and some more solid of growth of epithelioid cells as well as some areas with a tendency towards spindling of malignant tumour cells.  Many mitotic figures are seen.  There is eosinophilic cytoplasm and with nuclear pleomorphism including vesicular chromatin and nucleoli.  The tumour is not seen to infiltrate into the adherent skeletal muscle of the anterior abdominal wall in the section examined.  Tumour is present in six lymph nodes.
The morphological appearances are those of a biphasic epithelioid and spindling tumour with cytologic pleomorphism.  These appearances are consistent with the given history of mesothelioma.
DIAGNOSIS:
SMALL AND LARGE BOWEL AND ABDOMINAL WALL - MESOTHELIOMA.

27/11/2067 km
