SPR no: 77Q7700059
MRN no: 7767700
Site_name: GOULBURN VALLEY HEALTH - SHEPPARTON CAMPUS
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report77Q77000 (77Q7700059) BEACHLER, GARRY EDMUND

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Appendix cancer.  Redo Rt hemicolectomy.  Sigmoid resection.  Omentum

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;RIGHT COLON, SIGMOID COLON, OMENTUM&amp;quot;.  Three segments of large bowel, two with attached omentum and a separate piece of fibrotic tissue.

The first segment of large bowel with attached omentum (?right colon) measuring 120mm in length with a maximum diameter of 35mm.  The attached omental tissue is up to 60mm wide. There is a also a firm area noted ?muscle.  This area measures 70x70mm.  The serosal surface shows multiple areas of adhesion.  On opening, the lumen shows a site of anastomosis.  No discrete mass lesion is identified.  Presumed proximal margin inked blue, presumed distal inked black.  On sectioning through the omentum, there are multiple firm areas with a pale yet tan to yellow cut surface.

(1 margins; 2&amp;amp;3 sections through site of anastomosis; 4 showing bowel in relation to adherent omentum; 5-7 showing bowel in relation to ?muscle; 8&amp;amp;9 sections of omentum;

The next segment of bowel measures 30mm in length by 40mm in maximum diameter.  There is attached omental tissue measuring up to 70mm.  The serosal surface shows a small area of adhesion.  On opening, the lumen shows a firm flattened area.  This area measures 12mm in length by 12mm in maximum diameter.  It is 10mm from one margin and 4mm from the opposite margin.  The nearest margin is inked blue, the further margin black.  The serosa overlying this area is mildly kinked.  On sectioning through the firm area, it has a firm pale tan surface with small cystic areas.

10-12 firm area includes both  margins;

On sectioning through the attached omental tissue, there are two pale firm areas measuring 5mm in maximum extent.

13 section representing firm areas in omental tisue;

A segment of large bowel consistent with sigmoid colon.  It measures 165mm in length with a maximum diameter of 20mm.  There is attached mesocolic fat which is up to 60mm wide.  Due to nature of the specimen, proximal and distal margins cannot be accurately identified.  One margin is inked blue, the other black.  The serosa shows areas of roughening consistent with adhesion.  On opening the lumen, there are two firm areas with flattened mucosa identified. The first firm area is 20mm in length by 12mm in maximum diameter.  It is 75mm from the blue inked margin and 90mm from the black inked margin.  The second firm area measures 15mm in length by 12mm in maximum diameter and is 20mm from the first firm area, 100mm from the blue inked margin and 60mm from the black inked margin.  On sectioning through the first firm area, it shows a thickened wall.  The cut surface is firm with areas of multiple small cysts.  This area is 65mm from the nearest radial margin.  On sectioning through the second firm area, it has a similar appearance to the first firm area.  It is 70mm from the nearest radial margin.

14 margins, 15&amp;amp;16 first firm area; 17&amp;amp;18 second firm area; 19 roughened serosa; 20 two possible nodes;

A separate piece of fibrotic tissue measuring 40x20x15mm.  On sectioning, the cut surface reveals a fibrous cut surface with areas of multiple small cysts.

21 separate piece of fibrous tissue).  RS (M-21/MC/nh).

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr S Bumby)
Sections show extensive moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma. There is involvement of the scar tissue at the site of the previous right hemicolectomy anastomosis. There is extensive involvement of the omental tissue, together with involvement of the two further segments of large bowel. The foci within the bowel segments involve all layers of the bowel wall from the mucosa through to the serosa including the peritoneal surface.

The adenocarcinoma is characterised by variable differentiation ranging from larger cystic structures lined by relatively low-grade epithelium,  to moderately differentiated cellular aggregates and trabeculae without gland formation. Immunostains show that the carcinoma is positive for CK7 with probable focal weak positivity for CDX-2. The stains for CK20, ER, p16, TTF1 and PAX-8 are negative.

Comment: The appearances are those of widespread metastatic adenocarcinoma. The appearances and immunoprofile are unusual for an appendix primary.

DIAGNOSIS:
REDO RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY, SIGMOID COLON RESECTION, OMENTUM
- WIDESPREAD METASTATIC MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA INVOLVING THE ANASTOMOSIS OF THE RE-DO HEMICOLECTOMY, THE ADDITIONAL SEGMENTS OF LARGE BOWEL, AND THE OMENTUM. SEE COMMENT.

26/12/2066 cy
