SPR no: 46I714886Y
MRN no: 46371488
Site_name: NUMURKAH DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report46I71488 (46I714886Y) BALCKBURN, COLE

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Colorectal cancer.  Peritonectomy.
Liver lesions, omentum, gallbladder, colon.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, LEFT COLON, INGUINAL CANAL, PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;.  Omentum, gallbladder, a segment of large bowel with a side to side anastomosis and multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue (?peritoneum ?inguinal canal).

Omentum:  The omentum measures 750mm x 210mm x 40mm.  On palpation and sectioning no suspicious areas are identified.

(1&amp;amp;2 omentum;

Gallbladder:  The gallbladder measures 90mm in length with a maximum diameter of 45mm.  The serosal surface is smooth.  On opening, no stones are seen within the lumen.  The wall is up to 6mm thick.  The mucosa is granular, green in appearance with strips of cholesterolosis.

3 cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 4 body and fundus;

The segment of large bowel with side to side anastomosis measuring 140mm in length with a maximum diameter of 50mm.  There is attached mesocolic fat up to 110mm wide.  The mucosal surface shows no discrete lesions.  There is an anastomotic site noted.  No other lesions are identified.  One margin inked blue, the other black.  The serosal surface shows a roughened area consistent with site of adhesion.

5&amp;amp;6 margins; 7&amp;amp;8 site of anastomosis; 9&amp;amp;10 roughened serosa; 11 one possible lymph node;

Multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue consistent with ?peritoneum/inguinal canal, altogether measuring 270x140x40mm.  One has overlying skin ?umbilicus.  The skin is 20x20mm and is unremarkable.

12 ?umbilicus; 13-15 RS of fibrofatty tissue).  RS (M-15).

B.  &amp;quot;ASSOCIATED LIVER LESIONS&amp;quot;.  Multiple pieces of brown tissue consistent with liver in aggregate 50x45x12mm.  The resection margins are inked blue.  There are a total of seven pieces ranging from 10-20mm, some with a capsule and some without.   The first piece measures 20x10x10mm and there is a subcapsular pale area measuring up to 5mm in maximum dimension. The underlying liver tissue is unremarkable.  The lesion is 5mm from the nearest resection margin.  The second piece measures 18x18x6mm.  There is capsule present and subcapsular lesion measuring up to 5mm in maximum dimension.  The lesion involves the resection margin.  The third piece measures 20x15x10mm.  No capsule is present.  On sectioning, there is a lesion with a pale white cut surface with maximum measurement of 6mm. It has a pale white cut surface and involves the resection margin.  The fourth measures 10x10x10mm.  There is partial capsule and a subcapsular lesion measuring up to 5mm in maximum dimension and is 2mm from the nearest resection margin.  The fifth fragment bears a capsule measuring 10x9x7mm.  There is a subcapsular lesion measuring up to 2mm in maximum dimension and it involves the resection margin.  The sixth fragment bears capsule and measures 18x10x8mm.  There is a subcapsular pale tan lesion involving the resection margin and it measures 3mm in maximum dimension.  The last piece bears no capsule.  It measures 10x6x3mm.  On sectioning, no obvious lesion is identified.  In all the sections the liver parenchyma is light brown.

(1 first piece bisected; 2 second piece quadresected; 3 third piece quadresected; 4 fourth piece trisected; 5 fifth piece trisected; 6 sixth piece trisected; 7 last piece bisected).  AE (M-7/MC/nh).

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. K. Garrison)
A. Sections through the omentum show areas of fat necrosis and otherwise no significant abnormality.
The gallbladder shows no significant abnormality.
Sections through the segment of anastomosed large bowel show focal extravasated mucin in muscularis and serosa at the anastomosis site associated with  foreign body giant cell reaction. Foreign body giant cell reaction to suture material is also present at the site. No mucosal lesions are seen. One lymph node examined shows reactive changes. No tumour is seen.
Sections through the umbilicus show dermal fibrosis and a deposit of moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in keeping with origin from colorectal primary at its deep aspect.
Sections through the separately submitted fibrofatty fragments shows areas of fibrosis with focal foreign body granulomatous reaction. No tumour is seen.

B.  Sections through the liver moderate macrovesicular steatosis. Hepatocyte iron and copper content are not increased.  no Mallory hyaline or alpha-1 antitrypsin globules are seen.

In addition there are five separate bile duct adenomas which are situated in the subcapsular region of the liver segments and have a well circumscribed edge.
Immunoperoxidase staining of the tumour cells shows positive staining with CK7, AE1/AE3 with no staining for CEA, TTF-1, CK20 or CDX-2.

Local excision of the bile duct adenomas appears complete. There is no evidence of malignancy.

DIAGNOSIS:
GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, LEFT COLON, INGUINAL CANAL, PERITONEAL DISEASE:
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA IN KEEPING WITH ORIGIN FROM COLORECTAL PRIMARY INVOLVING SOFT TISSUES DEEP TO UMBILICUS.

ASSOCIATED LIVER LESION:
- FIVE SEPARATE BILE DUCT ADENOMAS.
- MODERATE FATTY CHANGE.

1/12/2066 ht
