SPR no: 68T342126W
MRN no: 6873421
Site_name: ATHERTON HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report68T34212 (68T342126W) BUEHNER, VALENTINE HYMAN

*SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ATTACHED*

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
CRC. Peritonectomy + liver resection.
Segment 3 liver.
Segment 5/6.
Peritoneal nodule.
Small bowel.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;PERITONEAL DISEASE AND SMALL BOWEL&amp;quot;. Received a length of small bowel, measuring 160x40mm, with mesentery up to 20mm. The outer surface is ragged, haemorrhagic and covered by multiple adhesions. A brown nodule with firm, white cut surface is identified, measuring 8x6x4mm, located 20mm of the nearest edge. The mucosal surface is unremarkable. No tumours or polyps are identified.

(1 LS of each peripheral edge; 2 representative nodule; 3 representative adjacent bowel with overlying adhesions).

Received a fibrofatty piece of tissue, measuring 50x30x15mm, contains three brown well-demarcated nodules with a smooth outer surface, measuring 10mm,15mm&amp;amp;16mm in maximum diameter. The cut surface reveals brown, haemorrhagic cut surface with a scattered white nodules (?splenials).The adjacent fatty cut surface has a firm, white nodule, measuring 6x6x5mm (metastatic deposit).

(1 nodule with one of the large splenials; 5 representative remainder splenials).

Multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue with overlying glistening surface (peritoneum), measuring 70x35x20mm, in aggregate. There are multiple firm, white nodules involving the outer surface of all fragments and extending into the underlying fatty tissue and skeletal muscle. The largest nodule measures 25mm in maximum diameter. The remainder nodules are 5-10mm.

(6 largest nodule; 7&amp;amp;8 representative smaller nodules). RS (M-8)

B. &amp;quot;LIVER SEGMENT 3&amp;quot;. A wedge resection of liver of a total weight of 34g, measuring 85x40x27mm, with two capsular surfaces that are extensively ragged. The margins are inked blue. The specimen is serially sliced. The cut surface reveals two separate nodules with white and yellow hard cut surface. The largest is subcapsular and abutting the surgical margin, measuring 22x15x8mm. The smaller is within 2mm of the overlying capsule and measures 14x10x7mm, and abutting the surgical margin macroscopically. The remainder liver tissue is pale, brown and unremarkable.

(1 LS of each peripheral end; 2 normal liver; 3 larger nodule at margin; 4 smaller nodule at margin). RS (5-4)

C. &amp;quot;LIVER SEGMENT 5/6&amp;quot;. A segment of liver resection of a total weight 86g, consists of a capsular surface, 95x40mm, with underlying tissue to a depth of 30mm. The margin is inked blue. The specimen is serially sliced. The cut surface reveals two well-demarcated firm, white, hard tumour deposits and smaller measures 14x14x9mm, located 15mm of the nearest capsule and abutting the surgical margin macroscopically. The larger nodule measures 27x24x17mm, located 10mm of the nearest capsule and involving the surgical margin macroscopically.

(1 LS of each peripheral edge; 2 normal liver; 3 smaller nodule; 4&amp;amp;5 representative larger nodule [5 tumour block for tissue banking]. RS (M-5)

D. &amp;quot;WOUND&amp;quot;. Unorientated tan, firm piece of tissue, measuring 25x15x7mm, with a glistening outer surface (?peritoneum that is ragged and nodular). The possible margin is inked blue. The cut surface reveals brown, muscular tissue with no definite lesions.

(1 LS of each peripheral end; 2 two TS mid). RS (4-2)

E. &amp;quot;LEFT ILIAC LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;. A fibrofatty piece of tissue, 27x20x15mm. Five possible lymph nodes are identified. The largest measures 12x5x5mm, with a firm, white cut surface. The remainder measures 5-6mm.

(1 largest lymph node, four TS; 2 ?four smaller nodes). RS (8-2)

F. &amp;quot;WALL OF VAGINA&amp;quot;. A possible mucosal surface, measuring 12x10mm, with underlying tissue to a depth of 10mm. The possible margin is inked blue. Trisected. The cut surface is firm and homogenous. AE (3-1/ZH/ 7/7/2067 cy)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. R Delcampo)
A. Sections of a length of small intestine show some serosal fibrosis. The margins of resection are unremarkable. The separate largest piece of fibrofatty tissue contains several deposits of moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma within a desmoplastic stroma. Necrosis and apoptotic debris are seen within some of these malignant glands. The features are in keeping with the clinical history metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma. This specimen also includes several encapsulated rounded nodules of unremarkable splenic tissue.
Sections of the other separate fibrofatty tissue pieces show that the largest nodule described macroscopically is a zone of inflammatory granulation tissue, suggestive of proximity to an abscess or area of inflammation. The smaller nodules are deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma within desmoplastic stroma. The nodule of inflammatory granulation tissue includes an area where fibrous tissue merges with striated muscle. A single lymph node in the fatty tissue shows mild reactive changes only.
B. Sections of the liver show two deposits of moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma, with a similar appearance to that in Specimen A. Each deposit has extensive central tumour necrosis. There is prominent tumour budding at the periphery of these deposits. One of these deposits is extremely close (0.1mm) to the diathermied excision margin, while the second deposit appears to focally involve this inked excision margin. The adjacent non-involved liver parenchyma appears unremarkable.
C. Sections of liver show two deposits of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, similar to those in specimens A and B, both of which show extensive peripheral budding. One of these deposits is 0.5mm from the inked excision margin, while the other deposit focally involves the inked excision margin. Sections of the non-involved liver parenchyma appears unremarkable.
D. Sections show an extensive, infiltrating deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma within fibrous tissue and adjacent striated muscle. No definite involvement of the diathermied excision margin is identified in the representative tissue examined.
E. The largest nodule is an irregular deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma within desmoplastic stroma and fibrofatty tissue. No residual lymph node tissue is identified adjacent to this deposit. A separate small lymph node shows mild reactive changes only.
F. Sections of squamous mucosa show moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma within the subepithelial deep stroma and underlying smooth muscle. There is no definite involvement of the inked excision margin in the single plane of section examined.

DIAGNOSIS:
A. PERITONEAL DISEASE AND SMALL BOWEL:
- MULTIPLE DEPOSITS OF MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA WITH THE PERITONEUM.

B. LIVER SEGMENT 3:
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.

C. LIVER SEGMENT 5/6:
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.

D. WOUND:
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.

E. LEFT ILIAC LYMPH NODE:
- AN IRREGULAR DEPOSIT OF METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA WITHIN FIBROFATTY CONNECTIVE TISSUE, AND A SEPARATE SMALL LYMPH NODE SHOWING REACTIVE CHANGES ONLY.

F. WALL OF VAGINA:
- INVOLVED BY METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.

7/10/2067 cy

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (17/7/67):

Immunostains for MSI proteins (McGraw-Hill CPC Pathology; block: A7)

MLH1:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei.
PMS2:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei.
MSH2:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei.
MSH6:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei.

Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme.

Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible.

17/7/2067 cy
