SPR no: 27J555049I
MRN no: 27355504
Site_name: AYR HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report27J55504 (27J555049I) WEIGL, RALPH PARIS

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Low grade appendix tumour.  Peritonectomy.  Peritoneum, omentum, gallbladder.

MACROSCOPIC:
OMENTUM, SPLEEN, BILATERAL DIAPHRAGM STRIP, GALLBLADDER, PERTIONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;. Consists of multiple fragments.

Consists of a gallbladder, 78x33x10mm.  The serosal surface appears smooth and shiny, and there is a small area of mucoid material, 4x3x2mm, located 11mm from the cystic duct margin. The mucosal surface is green and velvety.  Within the lumen there are innumerable small 0.5mm white calcified fragments. The average wall thickness is 2-3mm.

(1 shave cystic duct margin, section adjacent, and RS TS of gallbladder body; 2 section of gallbladder neck showing possible cystic duct node, TS of gallbladder body and LS of gallbladder fundus)

A spleen is present, 105x65x20mm.  There is attached fibroadipose tissue, 40x90x15mm.  At the edge of the spleen, adherent to the capsule is an area of dense mucoid tissue, 85x33x5mm.  Aside from this the splenic parenchyma is unremarkable.  The fibroadipose tissue shows extensive infiltration by mucinous material, 120x60mm in extent.

(3 spleen and mucinous tissue; 4 spleen and mucinous tissue; 5 RS of mucinous tissue; 6 RS of fibroadipose tissue with mucinous material; 7 sections of attached fibroadipose tissue).

There is a piece of thick fibroadipose tissue with lobulated  adipose tissue, resembling omentum, 190x100x12mm.  There is a small area of mucinous tissue on the surface, 9x2x2mm.

(8 two RS of fatty tissue and surface mucinous area; 9 one possible node bisected; 10 further sections of fatty tissue; 11 one further possible node, bisected)

The remaining tissues and numerous pieces of unorientated fibroadipose tissue, 8-260mm in size and 300x150x20mm in aggregate.  Within many of these pieces of tissue, there is thick mucoid material.  A possible obliterated umbilical vessel is present, with adjacent mucoid material.

(12 sections of possible obliterated umbilical artery; 13&amp;amp;14 sections from the largest separate piece of fibroadipose tissue; 15 RS of smaller pieces of fibroadipose tissue; 16 further sections from unorientated fibroadipose tissue [this is designated the tumour block]).  RS (M-16/LK/ank)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr H Rouselle)
The sections of the gallbladder show serosal adhesions with focal acellular mucus on the serosal surface.
The splenic parenchyma appears unremarkable.  On the serosal surface of the spleen there are large deposits of extracellular mucus with very rare groups of epithelial cells with low grade cytologic features.
Sections of the fibroadipose tissue adjacent to the spleen and the omentum show serosal deposits of extracellular mucus associated with strips, groups and glandular formations of low grade mucinous epithelium.  Several lymph nodes are identified and show reactive changes and a splenunculus is identified.
Sections of the separate piece of fibroadipose tissue show numerous deposits of extracellular mucus and groups of columnar mucinous epithelium with low grade cytologic features.  In some areas there is associated dense collagenised fibrous organisation of mucous and fibrosis is also seen in association with groups of low grade columnar mucinous epithelium.
Comment: The sections show extracellular mucus associated with low grade columnar mucinous epithelium. The appearances are consistent with low grade mucinous carcinoma peritonei (PSOGI consensus classification).
Clinical correlation is required.
DIAGNOSIS:
PERITONECTOMY - LOW GRADE MUCINOUS CARCINOMA PERITONEI - SEE TEXT.

10/2/2066 ank
