SPR no: 59H166998D
MRN no: 59216699
Site_name: BERRIGAN WAR MEMORIAL HOSPITAL/MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report59H16699 (59H166998D) MARCHELL, ANDREW

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Goblet cell carcinoid appendix with peritoneal mets, peritonectomy.  Uterus and ovaries, peritoneum, gallbladder, Rt colon and appendix, rectosigmoid, omentum.

MACROSCOPIC:
A  &amp;quot;OMENTUM, RECTUM, RIGHT COLON, UTERUS, BILATERAL OVARIES AND TUBES, GALLBLADDER&amp;quot;.  Multiple tissue fragments including :

A right hemicolectomy specimen including a terminal ileum 75x30mm, caecum and ascending colon 95x70mm with an appendix with lobulated outer surface forming a mass measuring 35x25x15mm.  Mesentery and mesocolon are attached along the specimen to a width of 60mm.  The serosal surface of the mesentery shows multiple scattered brown to white ragged areas, 5x20mm.  The serosal surface of the appendix is ragged and firm, white in colour.  The cut surface reveals cystic dilatation of the tip up to 15mm in maximum diameter that is filled with mucin.  The wall of the remainder appendix shows thickening up to 8mm with firm white areas extending from the lumen to involve the mesoappendix and the overlying serosa.  There is a resultant kinking of the lumen and adhesion of the proximal and distal segments.  No other mucosal lesions are identified.

(1  proximal and distal resection margin; 2  appendiceal orifice with caecal mucosa; 3-9  continuous slices TS&amp;apos;s of the appendix from proximal to distal; 10&amp;amp;11  each one LS tip [all appendix is embedded]; 12  representive mesenteric serosal involvement away from tumour; 13  one lymph node [apical]; 14-16  each five lymph nodes).

Enbloc rectosigmoid piece of bowel measuring 350x50mm with attached mesocolon up to 60mm adherent to a total hysterectomy specimen including a uterus 85x60x45mm with right fallopian tube 65x10mm, right ovary 35x20x15mm.  A left fallopian tube 110x8mm and a grossly enlarged lobulated left ovary measures 95x70x60mm.  Peritoneal strips are attached at the anterior uterine surface measures 190x95mm.  Some have an adherent omentum fragment 85x45mm.  The peritoneal surfaces are extensively ragged and haemorrhagic with adhesions and possible peritoneal deposits seen at the pouch of Douglas, the round ligament, the mesocolon of the sigmoid.  The anterior cervical margin is inked blue.  The posterior is inked black.  The cut surface reveals unremarkable endometrium up to 3mm thick.  The myometrium is trabeculated and up to 16mm thick.  The cut surface of the right and left tubes is unremarkable.  The cut surface of the right fallopian tube reveals firm grey cut surface with scattered white surface deposits.  The cut surface of the left ovary reveals a grossly enlarged oedematous ovarian tissue with extensive replacement by firm white solid lesion measuring 50x50x40mm.  It is involving the surface macroscopically.  The bowel lumen is unremarkable with no polyp or tumours seen.

(17  rectosigmoid proximal and distal resection margins; 18  rectosigmoid wall with adjacent left ovarian involvement; 19  mesentery of rectosigmoid involvement; 20-26 full face of the uterus [20  anterior cervix, 21 posterior cervix, 22 isthmus, 23 anterior body, 24  posterior body, 25 anterior fundus, 26 posterior fundus]; 27  round ligament [Pouch of Douglas involvement]; 28&amp;amp;29  right fallopian tube each one LS fimbrial end and one TS mid; 30  right ovary; 31&amp;amp;32  left fallopian tube fimbrial end involvement each one LS and one TS; 33-36  representative left ovary; 37  representative two lymph nodes, rectosigmoid; 38  peritoneal strip with attached omentum involvement).

Received multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue consistent with omentum measuring 290x130x45mm.  There are diffuse areas of thickening and haemorrhagic outer surface.  The cut surface reveals multiple [up to 10 scattered firm white nodules, largest measures 6mm in maximum dimeter].

(39  representative nodule).

Received multiple fibrous pieces of tissue consistent with peritoneal strips measuring 200x120x20mm in aggregate.  The outer surface is extensively haemorrhagic and ragged with multiple minute white deposits, 2-4mm.

(40&amp;amp;41 representative peritoneal strips).

Received a gallbladder measuring 70x25mm.  The outer surface is smooth with possible tan, brown and white deposit on the outer surface, largest measures 3mm.  The wall is up to 4mm thick.  The mucosal surface is green and granular.  No calculi are identified.

(42  cystic duct anterior neck; 43  TS body and LS fundus).  (36  is taken as tissue banking tumour block).  RS (M-43/ZH/km).

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. O. Meacham)
Sections show disseminated mixed adenoneuroendocrine carcinoma (MANEC), with a component of poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma with mucinous and signet ring differentiation, arising from the appendix and extending to involve caecal wall and mucosa in continuity with the base of the appendix. An incidental low grade appendiceal mucinous neoplasm is also seen.
Extensive lymphovascular invasion by the carcinoma is seen with serosal deposits in the caecum and mesoappendix.
11 of 14 local lymph nodes examined including apical lymph nodes show metastatic carcinoma.

Extensive metastatic carcinoma is also seen right through the uterus with extensive lymphatic permeation including cervix, myometrium and endometrium with extension onto uterine serosa. The cervical epithelium and endocervical glands show no intrinsic abnormality. The endometrium is inactive.

Metastatic carcinoma also involves both ovaries and both fallopian tubes and by direct extension from the left ovary onto rectosigmoid serosa with extensive lymphovascular invasion.

Metastatic carcinoma is also seen involving the separately submitted omental and peritoneal fragments and serosa of the gallbladder. Isolated tumour cells are also seen in the cystic duct lymph node.
The cystic duct resection margin is clear of any lesion.

Immunoperoxidase staining of the tumour cells shows positive staining with chromogranin, synaptophysin and CD56 of the neuroendocrine component but not the adenocarcinoma component. Ki-67 is variable and up to 80% in the glandular component.

DIAGNOSIS:
- DISSEMINATED MIXED ADENONEUROENDOCRINE CARCINOMA OF APPENDIX (MANEC) WITH POORLY-DIFFERENTIATED MUCINOUS AND SIGNET RING ADENOCARCINOMA COMPONENT.
- EXTENSIVE METASTATIC CARCINOMA INVOLVEMENT OF WHOLE UTERUS AND CERVIX, BOTH OVARIES AND BOTH FALLOPIAN TUBES, SEROSA OF RECTOSIGMOID, SEPARATELY SUBMITTED OMENTAL AND PERITONEAL FRAGMENTS, WITH SEROSAL DEPOSITS AND LYMPH NODE DEPOSITS IN THE RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY SPECIMEN.

19/3/2067 cy
