SPR no: 66X973091U
MRN no: 66997309
Site_name: WANTIRNA HEALTH
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report66X97309 (66X973091U) JUBRAN, MAYNARD JARRED

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
CRC with peritoneal mets - pertionectomy
Liver segment 2, liver segment 3.  Umbilicus.  Right lateral liver lobe.  Rectum.  Bilateral ovaries.  Ileocolic anastomosis.  Omentum/peritoneal mets.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;LIVER SEGMENT 2&amp;quot;.  A small piece of brown tissue consistent with liver.  It weighs 1.3g and measures 20x14x9mm.  The capsule is unremarkable.  The resection margin is inked blue.  On sectioning, there is a tumour with a pale white cut surface.  It measures 9x5x5mm.  It is 2mm from the nearest resection margin and abuts, but does not breach the capsule.  Specimen sectioned into five sections and all embedded.  AE (M-3).

B.  &amp;quot;LIVER SEGMENT 3&amp;quot;.  A piece of brown tissue consistent with liver.  It weighs 3.2g and measures 20x20x15mm.  The capsule shows a pale depressed area measuring 10x6mm.  The resection margin is inked blue.  It is sectioned from one end to the other into 5 slices.  On sectioning, there is a tumour underlying the pale area on the capsule.  It measures 12x12x10mm. It has a pale white cut surface with areas of haemorrhage.  The tumour abuts the resection margin  and underlies the capsule but appears not to breach it.  The liver parenchyma away from the lesion is brown and unremarkable.

(1 uninvolved liver; 2&amp;amp;3 sections of liver including tumour in relation to capsule and resection margin).  RS (M-3)

C.  &amp;quot;UMBILICUS&amp;quot;.  Skin with underlying subcutaneous tissue consistent with umbilicus.  It measures 45x13mm and is up to 30mm in depth.  The resection margin is inked blue.  It is then sectioned from one end to the other.  The cut surface reveals a fibrofatty cut surface.  RS (M-3).

D.  &amp;quot;LIVER SEGMENT 6, 7, OMENTUM, SMALL BOWEL, MESENTERY, RIGHT LATERAL LIVER LOBE, RECTUM, BILATERAL OVARIES, ILEOCOLIC ANASTOMOSIS&amp;quot;.
A piece of fatty tissue consistent with omentum, liver, a small segment of small bowel, a segment of bowel with anastomotic site and omentum, bilateral ovaries, segment of large bowel consistent with rectum, and multiple pieces of peritoneal tissue.

Liver - weighs 287g and measures 140x70x40mm.  The resection margin is inked blue.  The capsule is unremarkable.  On sectioning, the cut surface reveals nine lesions with pale white cut surfaces.  Lesion 1 measures 25x16x7mm.  It abuts the resection margin and is 18mm from the capsule.  The second lesion measures 8x7x7mm.  It is 28mm from the nearest resection margin and 10mm from the capsule.  The third lesion measures 16x15x15mm.  It is 11mm from the nearest resection margin and 10mm from the capsule.  The fourth lesion measures 15x13x12mm.  It is 2mm from the resection margin and 1mm from the nearest capsule.  The fifth lesion is 4x3x3mm.  It abuts the capsule and is 9mm from the nearest resection margin.  The sixth lesion measures 2mm in maximum dimension.  It is 5mm from the capsule and 6mm from the nearest resection margin.  The seventh lesion measures 8x8x8mm.  It is 9mm from the resection margin and 10mm from the nearest capsule.  The eight lesion measures 12x12x12mm.  It is 10mm from the nearest resection  margin and 4mm from the nearest capsule.  The ninth lesion measures 14x12x12mm.  It abuts the capsule and is 2mm from the nearest resection margin.  The rest of the liver parenchyma away from the lesions is brown and unremarkable.

(1 first lesion in relation to resection margin and capsule;  2 second lesion in relation to capsule; 3&amp;amp;4 composite slices third lesion in relation to resection margin and capsule; 5 fourth lesion in relation to capsule and nearest resection margin; 6 fifth lesion in relation to resection margin and capsule; 7 sixth lesion in relation to resection margin and capsule; 8&amp;amp;9 composite slices of seventh lesion in relation to resection margin and capsule; 10 eighth lesion in relation to resection margin and capsule; 11 ninth lesion in relation to resection margin and capsule;

Section of fatty tissue consistent with omentum measuring 170x160x30mm.  On sectioning, there is one firm area with a pale white cut surface measuring 6mm in maximum dimension.

12 firm area; 13 further section of omentum;

Short segment of colon measuring 60mm in length with maximum diameter of 30mm. The attached fatty tissue is up to 45mm wide.  The serosa is unremarkable.  On opening, the lumen is unremarkable.

14 RS of short segment of colon;

Ileocolic anastomosis  measuring 290mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm.  There is attached mesentery up to 60mm wide.  There is attached omentum measuring 115mm wide.  The serosa is mildly roughened.  Also noted within the attached omentum is a firm area ?tumour.  On opening, there is a site of anastomosis.  No discrete mass lesions are identified.  There are also two segments of bowel adherant to each other at the site of anastomosis.  On sectioning through the firm area, it has a pale white cut surface.

15 margins; 16 site of anastomosis; 17 roughened serosa; 18 roughened firm area with mesentery; 19 segments of small bowel adherent to each other; 20 small bowel with adherent omentum; 21&amp;amp;22 sections of omentum [22 tumour block];

First presumed ovary weighing 11g and measures 35x25x10mm.  The serosal surface shows a nodule contour with roughening of the nodules.  It is inked blue.  There is also attached fimbriae.  On sectioning through the presumed ovary, it has a firm pale white cut surface.

23-25 sections of first ?ovary;

The second presumed ovary weighs 47g and measures 60x40x35mm.  The serosal surface is nodular and haemorrhagic in appearance.  It is inked blue.  On sectioning, the cut surface reveals a variegated cut surface with a pale white, glistening, and haemorrhagic appearance. No residual normal ovarian tissue is identified.

26-28 RS of ?second ovary [27&amp;amp;28 is one composite slice]; 29 further sections of ovary;

Attached to the ovary was a tubular structure measuring 20mm in length with a maximum diameter of 6mm ?fallopian tube.

30 ?fallopian tube;

A segment of large bowel consistent with rectum measuring 150mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm.  Attached mesocolic fat is up to 80mm wide.  The attached peritoneal reflection is firm and appears involved by tumour.  The serosa shows nodular areas ?tumour involvement.  On opening, the mucosa is unremarkable.  No discrete mass lesion is identified.  The proximal margin inked blue, distal black.

31 margins; 32 serosal nodules; 33 anterior peritoneal reflection involved by ?tumour; 34 four possible lymph nodes;

The separate pieces of tissue consistent with peritoneum, altogether 150x130x50mm.  It shows nodular areas ?tumour deposit

35&amp;amp;36 sections of peritoneum).  RS (M-36/MC/nh).

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr S Mcrary)
A. Histology shows a focus of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma consistent with a colorectal primary. The focus of carcinoma lies 0.1mm from the diathermied hepatic resection margin. Non-involved liver shows mild fatty change with no significant fibrosis or inflammation present.

B. Histology shows a focus of moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma consistent with a colorectal primary which focally extends to reach the hepatic resection margin. Non-involved liver shows mild fatty change.

C. Histology shows skin with underlying dermis and fibrofatty subcutaneous tissue. Focally, within the deep area of scarring, in subcutaneous fat, there is a small focus of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma lying 0.1mm from the diathermy margin on the deep surface.

D. Histology shows 9 foci of moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma, identical to those described above and consistent with a colorectal primary. Focally, one of the deposits lies 1mm from the diathermied hepatic resection margin. Additionally, there is a small focus which lies within the hepatic surface capsule with tumour lying on the free surface, with carcinoma also found within some adjacent adherent fibrofatty tissue. Metastatic deposits are also seen adjacent to the ileocolic anastomosis where carcinoma lies within subserosal fatty tissue between the adjacent loops of small bowel and colon adjacent to the anastomosis, within the mesentery, replacing both ovaries, over the serosal aspect of the small bowel and rectum and within some free pieces of peritoneal fatty tissue. Morphology is all, again, consistent with metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma.

DIAGNOSIS:
A. LIVER SEGMENT 2
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.

B. LIVER SEGMENT 3
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.


C. UMBILICUS
- METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.

D. LIVER SEGMENT 6,7, OMENTUM, SMALL BOWEL, MESENTERY, RIGHT LATERAL LIVER LOBE, RECTUM, BILATERAL OVARIES, ILEOCOLIC ANASTOMOSIS
- MULTIPLE DEPOSITS OF METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA.

24/4/2067 cy
