SPR no: 79U594245M
MRN no: 7975942
Site_name: GLOUCESTER SOLDIERS MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report***** SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT &amp;#8211; SEE BELOW *****

CLINICAL:
Pancreatic head mass - ?from IPMN.  ?cancer arising from IPMN.  Portal vein invoved ?is intima breached.  Resected en block. No neoadjuvant tx.  Silk tie on splenic vein.  Silk tie on bile duct.  Single prolene suture SMA margin.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Whipple procedure&amp;quot;, consists of a pancreatoduodenectomy including proximal pancreas (73 x 40 x 32mm), distal stomach (22mm length x 53mm circumference), small bowel (270mm length x 57mm circumference), gallbladder (82mm length x 29mm diameter), cystic duct (32mm length x 4mm diameter), extra pancreatic common bile duct (90mm  length x 8mm diameter), peripancreatic adipose tissue/omentum (95 x 20 x 8mm), and separate omental tissue (380 x 100 x 14mm).  Orienting sutures are in situ.  Attached to the pancreas are segments of portal vein (16mm length x 9mm diameter) and splenic vein (3mm length x 3mm diameter).  The stapled proximal and distal gastrointestinal margins are inked blue.  The pancreatic portal vein margin is inked blue, pancreatic SMA margin is inked red, anterior pancreas is inked green, and posterior pancreas is inked black.  Additionally, the posterior aspect of the pancreatic neck is inked black.  The inferior 135mm of small bowel mucosa appears tan/congested; the gastrointestinal mucosa appears otherwise unremarkable.  The duodenal papillae is not identified.  The lumen of the portal vein appears smooth and uninvolved by tumour; the splenic vein lumen is not able to be assessed given the small calibre of the vessel.  The pancreas is sectioned transversely from neck to inferior aspect into sixteen slices.  There is a pale grey, firm tumour with scattered cystic areas in slices 1 to 10, which appears to involve the main pancreatic duct.  The tumour measures approximately 35 x 23 x 60mm.  There is no obvious extra pancreatic extension.  The serosal surface of the gallbladder is smooth and green/blue.  The gallbladder has a wall thickness of 1mm.  The mucosa is dark green with scattered pale yellow pinpoint spots, consistent with cholesterolosis.  There are no gallstones.  No tumour deposits or lymph nodes are identified in the separate or attached fibroadipose/omental tissue.
Blocks: 1 - FS 1 (superior pancreatic neck margin, including main duct); 2 - FS 2 (inferior pancreatic neck margin); 3 - LS stomach margin; 4 - LS small bowel margin; 5 - TS shave (3mm) bile duct/common hepatic duct margin; 6 - TS shave (2mm) superior portal vein margin; 7 - TS shave (2mm) inferior portal vein margin; 8 - TS shave (2mm) splenic vein margin; 9 - TS shave new pancreatic margin (true margin in blocks 1 and 2); 10 - TS shave cystic duct/neck gallbladder, and TS body gallbladder; 11 - LS fundus gallbladder; 12 - LS congested portion of distal small bowel; 13 - representative attached fibroadipose tissue; 14 to 16 - representative omentum; 17 - slice one (neck); 18 - slice two; 19 - slice three; 20 - slice four; 21 - slice five (includes LS through portal vein); 22 - slice six (includes LS through portal vein); 23 - slice seven (includes LS through portal vein); 24 - slice eight (includes SMA margin); 25 - slice nine (includes SMA margin); 26 - slice ten (includes SMA margin); 27 - slice eleven; 28 - slice twelve; 29 - slice thirteen; 30 - slice fourteen; 31 - slice fifteen; 32 - slice sixteen (inferior pancreas).  Complete pancreas embedded.  Please refer to photos. (TO: JB;JB/vo 2.7.66)

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Moderate dysplasia
Phone results to Dr U Mangels (UGI Fellow) by Dr U Ormond, Dr U Hackshaw and Dr U Ticas
at 2:50pm on 02.12.2016


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof SOL SIVAL and Dr U Faulknen):
Please refer to synoptic report below:

Histological tumour type
Ductal adenocarcinoma

Histological grade
Grade 3: Poorly differentiated (49% or less of tumour composed of glands). Tumour necrosis is also present.

Microscopic tumour sites
Pancreas

Extent of tumour invasion
Pancreas
Pancreatic duct
Portal vein - Carcinoma invades into the outer layer, and very focally into the media, of the portal vein at the portal vein bed.  There is no breach of the intima of the portal vein.

Peripancreatic soft tissues - including a nodule of tumour seen within small intestinal serosal fat (block 26). This nodule shows similar morphology to areas within the main tumour. Carcinoma also extends into peripancreatic soft tissues around the attachment of the portal vein.
Bile duct - The portion of the bile duct, immediately outside the pancreatic parenchyma (Block 21) contains moderate dysplasia and shows scattered small clusters of mildly atypical cells in the wall of the duct. There are associated changes of atrophic pancreatitis surrounding the duct and the appearances are not definite for bile duct involvement by invasive carcinoma and may be a reflection of chronic inflammation and atrophy.

Maximum tumour diameter
Approximately 55mm

Lymphovascular invasion
Present - Carcinoma is seen in the walls of medium and larger arterial vessels (eg Block 23 and 24).
The section of splenic vein shows no evidence of tumour.

Perineural invasion
Present - Involvement of large nerves is present within peripancreatic soft tissue adjacent to the bed of the portal vein.

Perineural invasion of the superior mesenteric artery (uncinate) margin neural plexus
Carcinoma is seen involving several large nerves close to the red-inked SMA margin.

Pre-invasive lesion
Present - Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) with moderate and high grade dysplasia. There is extensive involvement of branch ducts throughout the pancreas by atypical, proliferative mucinous and pancreatico-biliary epithelium showing a range of dysplasia, up to and including high grade dysplasia. In some areas it is difficult to determine whether these changes represent branch duct extension by IPMN or PanIN.
In block 24, a severely dysplastic duct appears to directly communicate with invasive carcinoma, consistent with a point of origin of the invasive carcinoma.

Margins
Pancreatic neck: Moderate dysplasia is present in the duct transected at the neck margin, as reported in the frozen section. Florid changes of chronic inflammation and atrophy are seen within the parenchyma at this margin. The atrophic glands retain a lobular low power pattern and are dissimilar to the main tumour. There is no diagnostic evidence of invasive malignancy at this margin.

Common bile duct: Clear
Portal vein (superior mesenteric vein): Carcinoma extends to within 1.5 - 2mm of the peripancreatic soft tissue margin adjacent to the portal vein. The shaved superior and inferior ends of the portal vein are free of tumour.
Superior mesenteric artery: 2mm clearance. Carcinoma is seen involving several large nerves close to the red-inked SMA margin.
Periuncinate soft tissue: Further examination in progress.

Surfaces
Anterior: Carcinoma extends microscopically close (within 0.1 - 0.2mm) of the anterior surface but no definite tumour cells are seen on the inked surface,
Posterior: Clear of tumour

Lymph nodes
Number found:  16
Number involved:  3 - One node is involved by direct invasion.

Other pathologies: The gallbladder shows mucosal autolysis but no other significant change. The sections of omentum show no evidence of malignancy.

PATHOLOGICAL STAGING
pT3 pN1 pMX (AJCC 7th Ed.)

PANCREAS
Primary tumour category (pT)
TX Primary tumour cannot be assessed
T0 No evidence of primary tumour
Tis Carcinoma in situ*
T1 Tumour limited to the pancreas, 2 cm or less in greatest dimension
T2 Tumour limited to the pancreas, more than 2 cm in greatest dimension
T3 Tumour extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement of the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery
T4 Tumour involves the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery (unresectable primary tumour)
* This also includes &amp;#8220;PanIn-III&amp;#8221; classification

Regional lymph node category (pN)
NX Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed
N0 No regional lymph node metastasis
N1 Regional lymph node metastasis

Distant metastasis category (pM)
M0 No distant metastases
M1 Distant metastasis
MX Not assessable by histology


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT 16/2/2066 (A/Prof U Raith and registrar Dr U Bice).
The sections were reviewed and discussed with registrar Dr U Wesche. The anatomy of the bile duct, pancreatic duct and intra-pancreatic branch ducts has been challenging to map due to the presence of widespread ductal dilatation and proliferative PanIN changes in many areas and due to the angle of sectioning employed to optimise examination of the portal vein.

The dilated and proliferative duct bounded by atrophic parenchyma in block 21 (described above in bile duct discussion) appears to be a dilated peripheral intrapancreatic duct with PanIN.
The true bile duct has been tracked through the sections. There is a possible focus of low grade dysplasia (Bil-IN 1) in the the intrapancreatic portion of the common bile duct where it is in close proximity to the ampulla and pancreatic duct. As reported above, the bile duct margin is clear of dysplasia.
The uncinate margin was discussed with Dr Kuhnen and is clear. The superior mesenteric artery (uncinate) margin neural plexus is described above.
DIAGNOSTIC SUMMARY:
Pancreas: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, pT3 pN1 pMX (AJCC 7th Ed.)
Perineural and vascular invasion present
Pre-invasive dysplastic changes within pancreatico-biliary duct system (see above)
No involvement of portal vein intima
