SPR no: 66P213247C
MRN no: 66521324
Site_name: BOWRAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report66P21324 (66P213247C) MORINO, JUSTIN

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
R hemicolectomy.  Spleen, uterus, tubes and ovaries, gallbladder, omentum, peritoneum.
Appendiceal cancer previous appendicectomy.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;SPLEEN, COLON, GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, BILATERAL OVARIES, UTERUS, PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;.
Consists of a spleen weighing 222g and measuring 130x70x40mm with a largely smooth capsular surface with patchy areas of mucinous disease.
A gallbladder 70mm in length and up to 25mm in width with patchy mucinous disease at the fundic region of the gallbladder.

Hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen with overlying peritoneum showing patchy mucinous disease involving the uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaries and overlying peritoneum.  The uterus and cervix measures 105x60x55mm.  The cervix measures up to 50mm from right to left with a 10mm slit like os. The right fallopian tube measures 50mm and is up to 10mm in width. The right ovary is 28x25x12mm.  The left fallopian tube measures 52mm in  length and up to 10mm in width.  The left ovary measures 30x20x10mm.  The endometrium measures up to 2mm in thickness and the myometrium up to 25mm in thickness maximally posteriorly. There is a IUCD in situ.

Right hemicolectomy specimen consisting of terminal ileum stump measuring 30x20mm, caecum 30x50mm, and ascending 80mm in length and up to 50mm in open circumference. There is pericolic fat up to 50mm in thickness with adherent mucinous disease.  The appendix is not identified.  There are multiple pieces of omentum and peritoneum measuring 220x250x50mm with patchy involvement of mucinous disease.

(1 anterior cervix; 2 posterior cervix; 3 posterior endomyometrium; 4 anterior endomyometrium with overlying mucinous tumour; 5 right parametrium; 6 right ovary with underlying cyst and overlying mucinous disease; 7 right fallopian tube with mucinous disease; 8 left ovary; 9 left fallopian tube; 10 mucinous disease of peritoneum attached to uterus; 11 sampled section of gallbladder; 12 sampled section of spleen; 13 terminal ileum and ascending colon margins; 14 caecum and ascending colon; 15 pericolic fat; 16&amp;amp;17 sampled peritoneum; 18-20 sampled omentum).  RS (M-20/MY 12/7/2067 ank)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr P Woester)
Sections of the cervix are unremarkable.  The endometrium shows decidual reaction and inactive to weakly secretory patterned glands.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  On the serosal surface of the uterus and in the right parametrium there are extracellular mucus deposits and in the right parametrium these are associated with strips and groups of columnar mucinous epithelium, some of which show stratification.  Similar deposits of extracellular mucus are seen on the surface of the right and left ovaries and the right and left fallopian tube serosa.  In several areas, there is multilayering  with occasional apoptotic and mitotic figures and with a tendency towards vesicular chromatin with small nucleoli.  In other areas, there is a more bland appearing mucinous epithelium with abundant apical cytoplasm and basally located nuclei.  Similar mucinous deposits with mucinous epithelium are seen on the peritoneal reflections adjacent to the uterus.
The section of the gallbladder shows deposits of extracellular mucus with associated mucinous epithelium on its serosal surface.
The section of the spleen shows normal appearing splenic parenchyma, and with deposits of mucus associated with columnar mucinous epithelium on the serosal surface.
Sections from the segments of colon and small bowel show unremarkable appearing mucosa and submucosa and serosa.  Sections from the caecum and ascending colon show a hyperplastic-type polyp.
Sections of the pericolic fat show serosal deposits of extracellular mucus associated with strips and glands of columnar mucinous epithelium.
Sections of the separate fragments of peritoneum and omentum show deposits of extracelluular mucus associated with strips and glands of columnar mucinous epithelium.  In some areas, there is multilayering and with vesicular chromatin with irregular nuclei, with single or multiple small nucleoli.  Some apoptotic figures are also seen.
Comments:  There are numerous deposits of extracellular mucus associated with columnar mucinous epithelium with a predomianant low grade nuclear cytology with focal intermediate grade features. This is overall considered low grade in this material (PSOGI nomeclature - low grade mucinous carcinoma peritonei). Correlation with previous pathology results is recommended.

DIAGNOSIS:
PERITONECTOMY SPECIMEN: -
- LOW GRADE MUCINOUS CARCINOMA PERITONEI - SEE TEXT AND COMMENTS

12/12/2067 nh
