SPR no: 52B3010002
MRN no: 5203010
Site_name: GOULBURN VALLEY HEALTH - WARANGA CAMPUS
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report52B30100 (52B3010002) MARAZZI, SAMMIE

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
CRC recurrent peritonectomy.
Ileocolic anastomosis. Rt lobe liver. Lesion on stomach. Lymph node left hilus. Hilar tumour.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;LIVER, SPLEEN, PANCREAS, DIAPHRAGM, ANASTOMOSIS&amp;quot;. Consists of spleen, liver, a segment of small bowel and a segment of large bowel and separately is a piece of fibrofatty tissue.

Spleen.
It weighs 172g, and measures 105x70x45mm. There is attached piece of fibrofatty tissue ?diaphragm. The capsule shows areas of adhesion and partially stripped over an area, measuring 70x30mm. The attached piece of fibrofatty tissue is 70x30x30mm. On sectioning through the splenic parenchyma, there are two lesions with pale white cut surfaces. The first lesion is underlying the capsule and measures 15x12x10mm. The second lesion within the testicular parenchyma measures 25x20x20mm. Also noted in the roughened area of the capsule is a pale white area, measuring 10x10mm and up to 6mm in depth. Within the hilar fat is tumour deposit with a pale white cut surface.

(1 first lesion abutting the capsule; 2&amp;amp;3 sections of second lesion including tumour deposit within hilar fat; 4 section of roughened capsule; 5 section of ?diaphragm).

Liver.
It weighs 576g, and measures 150x140x5mm. The resection margin is inked blue. The capsule shows areas of roughening consistent with adhesion. On sectioning through the liver, there is one lesion, it measures 10x10x6mm, and abuts the capsule but does not appear to breach it. It is 25mm from the nearest resection margin. The liver parenchyma away from the lesion is brown and unremarkable.

(6&amp;amp;7 entire lesion embedded; 8 liver parenchyma away from the lesion).

Small bowel.
It measures 331mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm. The serosa shows multiple areas of roughen. On opening the lumen, it shows normal mucosal folds. No discreet mass lesion is identified. On margin is inked blue, the other black.

(9 margin; 10&amp;amp;11 sections through roughened serosa).

Segment of large bowel.
Segment comprises of small and large bowel. There is a large bowel, site-to-site anastomosis. The longer segment of large bowel on a blind loop. There are two steps of margin. One at the small bowel resection margin; second one is on the shorter segment over anastomosed large bowel (small bowel margin is taken as proximal, inked blue; large bowel margin is taken as distal, inked black). At the site of anastomosis, there is a depressed area with raised edges. This area is firm. The edges shows some granularity (possible tumour recurrent of the site of anastomosis). The longer segment of large bowel with a blind loop measures 130mm. The shorter segment of large bowel, anastomosed to the large bowel measures 60mm. The segment of small bowel is 20mm in length with a maximum diameter of 15mm. The site of the anastomosis ?tumour recurrent measures 32x30mm. It is 15mm away from proximal margin and 30mm from distal margin. The serosa shows areas of roughening ?adhesion. Underlying the tumour at the site of anastomosis is a roughened area.

(12-20 section of tumour [12 in relation to proximal margin and radial margin; 12&amp;amp;13 composite slices; 14&amp;amp;15 composite slices; 16&amp;amp;17 composite slices; 18&amp;amp;19 composite slices; 12,18&amp;amp;20 shows relation to proximal margin; 12,13,14,15,17,19 shows relation to radial margin; 18&amp;amp;20 shows relation to serosa]; 21 shows distal margin; 22-24 possible lymph nodes [22 seven possible nodes; 23 five possible nodes; 24 one node bisected).

The separate piece of fibrofatty tissue measures 50x30x25mm. On sectioning, the cut surface is fibrofatty. No discreet lesion is identified.

(25 separate piece of fatty tissue). RS (M-25)

B. &amp;quot;LESION STOMACH&amp;quot;. Consists of a piece of fibrotic tissue. It measures 25x6x3mm. No mucosa is noted macroscopically. There is a pale white area at the edge of the specimen, measuring 10mm. On sectioning, the cut surface is glistening, bisected. AE (2-1)

C. &amp;quot;HILAR TUMOUR&amp;quot;. Consists of one piece of fibrotic tissue with ?overlying skin/mucosa. The mucosa is 28x10mm. The underlying fibrofatty tissue is 35x25x10mm. Resection margin is inked green. On sectioning, the cut surface is fibrotic. No discreet lesion is identified. AE (M-3)

D. &amp;quot;LYMPH NODE LEFT HILAR OF LIVER&amp;quot;. Consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue. First one measures 10mm; second one measures 20x7x5mm. Three possible nodes are identified. AE (3-1/MC/ 7/6/2067 cy)

MICROSCOPIC  (Dr. O. Koeninger)
A.  Sections show disseminated moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with desmoplastic stroma in keeping with origin from colorectal primary.
The carcinoma involves splenic parenchyma including splenic hilum with focal involvement of pancreatic tissue and with metastatic adenocarcinoma in 2 out of 3 splenic hilar lymph nodes. There is infiltration by carcinoma of skeletal muscle in continuity from the splenic deposits.
Sections through the segment of liver show metastatic adenocarcinoma.  The rest of the liver parenchyma shows no significant abnormality.  Local excision of the deposit of carcinoma appears complete.
Sections through the segment of small bowel shows serosal fibrous adhesions and otherwise no significant abnormality.
Sections through the enterocolonic anastomosis shows mesenteric deposits of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with extension into overlying muscularis propria, submucosa and mucosa of both small bowel and large bowel.  Lymphovascular invasion and perineural invasion by the carcinoma is seen.  In addition there is involvement of the free mesothelial surface.  Metastatic adenocarcinoma is also seen in 4 out of 16 lymph nodes examined.
Metastatic adenocarcinoma is also seen in separately submitted omental fat.
B.  Sections show metastatic adenocarcinoma involving fibrofatty tissue and smooth muscle tissue presumably arising from gastric wall.  Lymphovascular invasion by the carcinoma is seen.
C.  Sections show liver hilar tissue with extensive involvement by metastatic adenocarcinoma including involvement of bile ductular  wall, perineural involvement and lymphovascular involvement.  The carcinoma extends to the lateral edges of the specimen.
D.  Sections show metastatic adenocarcinoma to lymph node with extranodal spread extending into adipose tissue.
DIAGNOSIS:
LIVER, SPLEEN, PANCREAS, DIAPHRAGM, ANASTOMOSIS:
- DISSEMINATED MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA IN KEEPING WITH ORIGIN FROM COLORECTAL PRIMARY INVOLVING SPLEEN, SPLENIC HILUM INCLUDING PANCREATIC TISSUE, SPLENIC HILAR LYMPH NODES, DIAPHRAGM, LIVER, ENTEROCOLONIC ANASTOMOSIS WITH LYMPH NODE METASTASES, AND OMENTUM.

LESION STOMACH :
-DEPOSIT OF MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA.

HILAR TUMOUR :
-DEPOSIT OF MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA.

LYMPH NODE LEFT HILAR OF LIVER :
-DEPOSIT OF MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA IN LYMPH NODE WITH EXTRANODAL SPREAD.

7/7/2067 ank
