SPR no: 46T380523M
MRN no: 46738052
Site_name: WAGGA WAGGA RURAL REFERRAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report46T38052 (46T380523M) BUD, EMIL

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
H/o appendiceal tumour - PMP.  Residual transverse colon.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;RECURRENT APPENDIX CANCER&amp;quot;. Consists of skin with underlying subcutaneous tissue and colostomy site and three segments of bowel.  The skin measures 20x20mm.  Underlying subcutaneous tissue is 35x30mm and up to 14mm in depth. Resection margin is inked black. The skin surface is unremarkable.  On sectioning the cut surface is fatty in nature. No lesion is noted macroscopically.

(1 RS of skin)

Colostomy site - The overlying rim of skin ranges from 2-20mm.  Segment of bowel measures 40mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm.  On the skin surface is a raised grey area with mucin noted on the surface.  This area measures 20x12mm and up to 10mm in depth.  Resection margin inked blue. The mucosa surface appears unremarkable.  On sectioning through the lesion noted on the skin, the cut surface is glistening in appearance.

(2&amp;amp;3 RS of colostomy site includes lesion on skin [3 tumour block])

First segment of bowel consists of a segment of bowel with a side to side anastomosis. The longer segment measures 270mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm.  The anastomosed shorter segment measures 100mm with a maximum diameter of 50mm.  On the shorter segment there is a row of surgical staples and one blind loop. The serosal surface is roughened.  Stapled margin inked blue.  On sectioning through the stapled anastomosis there is tumour deposit within the wall with a mucinous cut surface.  The remainder of the mucosa is unremarkable.

(4 margins; 5&amp;amp;6 sections through anastomotic site; 7 roughened area on longer segment).

The second segment of bowel measures 40mm in length with a maximum diameter of 40mm.  The serosal surface is roughened. Mucosa appears unremarkable.

(8 section through roughened area)

The last segment of bowel measures 60mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm. The serosa is roughened.  Mucosal is unremarkable.

(9 section through roughened serosa). RS (M-9/MC 16/11/2067 ank)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. M. Blache)
Sections through the colostomy site show a deposit of moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma with areas of non-mucinous desmoplastic destructive tumour invasion involving skin with surface ulceration and extending into adjacent colonic wall and mucosa.  Extension into underlying mesentery of colon is also present.  Local excision of the deposit of mucinous carcinoma appears complete.

Sections through the ileocolonic anastomosis show recurrent moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma involving serosal surface with direct extension into muscularis propria and submucosa at the site of the anastomosis.  Lymphovascular invasion by the carcinoma is seen.  The surgical margins of resection are clear of any lesion.

Sections through the two separate segments show no significant abnormality.

DIAGNOSIS:
RECURRENT APPENDIX CANCER:
-  DEPOSITS OF MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA INVOLVING COLOSTOMY SITE AND ILEOCOLONIC ANASTOMOSIS.

16/11/2067 nh
