DateOfBirth
199903040000


SiteName
YARRA RANGES HEALTH


FirstName
Scott


SPRID
31Y903383U


MRN
3199033


SpecimenType
Fresh Tissue


Gender
M


MiddleName



FacilityID
016


LabNumber
OMNI-Lab_11


SPRText
CLINICAL:
Liposarcoma retroperitoneum from diaphragm to scrotum on left.  Resected with bowel and left kidney.  Suture on renal pedicle.  Left hemiscrotectomy as separate specimen.
Specimen is oriented by Dr J Signorile.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left retroperitoneal mass plus left kidney, adrenal and colon&amp;quot;, consists of
a composite specimen weighing 4,950g.  The specimen measures 360mm (superior to inferior) x 220mm (medial to lateral) x up to 180mm (superficial to deep).  A segment of bowel is on the anterior aspect and measures 170mm long and the kidney with attached adrenal gland is identified posteriorly and measures 110 x 60 x 55mm in total.

An anterior mass of tumour (clinically ?dedifferentiated) measures 210 x 150 x 90mm.   The nodule is removed from the remainder of the specimen.  On sectioning, the anterior nodule has a multilobulated fatty appearance compromising approximately 40% necrosis.  Tumour extends to all margins.

A 45mm solid nodule is identified arising within the mesentery of the attached bowel segment, separate from the main fatty posterior mass.  This nodule has discrete lobulated fatty cut surface with a peripheral rim of calcification and cystic change.

In the region near the ?inguinal canal there is a 25mm firm nodule abutting the deep margin.

The posterior mass otherwise has a multilobulated fatty appearance with no discrete areas of haemorrhage, necrosis or solid change.   Several possible lymph nodes are identified in a deep chain corresponding to position of aorta.

Inking Key
The anterior nodule is inked:
Anterior = blue, posterior = purple, medial = red and lateral = green.
The remaining posterior mass is inked:
Anterior = blue, posterior = black, medial = red, lateral = green, kidney hilum = yellow, ?inguinal canal attachment = yellow, residual tissue around detached anterior nodule = purple.

Blocks: 1 to 14 - anterior nodule (1 and 2 - superior; 3 and 4 - anterior; 5 and 6 - medial; 7 and 8 - lateral; 9 and 10 - posterior; 11 and 12 - inferior; 13 and 14 - central tumour); 15 - renal hilar vessels; 16 - hilar lymph nodes; 17 - possible ureteric margin; 18 - proximal and distal bowel margins; 19 - shave of ?inguinal canal; 20 and 21 - superior adrenal and kidney with adjacent superior fat; 22 - renal hilum with hilar fat (medial); 23 - inferior kidney with adjacent perinephric fat/tumour; 24 to 26 - composite section through 45mm mesenteric nodule; 27 to 36 - posterior mass (27 and 28 - anterior margin; 29 and 30 - posterior/deep margin; 31 and 32 - medial margin; 33 and 34 - lateral margin; 35 and 36 - inferior margin); 37 - tumour with adjacent bowel wall; 38 - RS through 25mm ?inguinal canal nodule; 39 - one possible node; 40 - one node bisected; 41 - tumour for biobanking; 42 to 45 - remainder of nodule seen in 38;  46 - fibrous septae embedded en face; 47 to 51 - further RS of mottled fat ?mosaic type; 52 - tissue inferior to block 23. See blocking diagram.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left scrotal mass&amp;quot;, consists of a scrotal mass, weighing 475g and measuring 170 x 85 x 70mm.  The skin ellipse measures 100 x 65mm.  On sectioning the cut surface demonstrates a multilobulated fatty tumour extending from the spermatic cord into the scrotal cavity and abutting the testis.  Individual tumour nodules measure up to 60mm in maximum dimension and have a variable haemorrhagic and mucoid cut surface.  No definite necrosis is seen.  No solid areas are identified.  The testis (35mm) is still confined within the tunica albuginea.  The tunical sac is dilated by serous fluid.  The fatty tumour extends to the peripheral and deep margins, and separated only by a thin fibrous layer.  Please note, fibrous layer retracts during fixation and sectioning.

Inking Key:
Deep = black, medial = red, lateral = blue.

Blocks:  1 - TS shave spermatic cord margin/edge; 2 to 5 - composite section through spermatic cord superior to skin; 6 - superior skin with underlying tumour; 7 - deep margin with dense fatty nodule; 8 - medial skin and tumour; 9 - medial margin; 10 - deep margin; 11 - lateral margin; 12 - lateral skin with underlying tumour; 13 - further lateral margin; 14 - central tumour; 15 - tumour with adjacent testis; 16 - inferior margin with testis.  See blocking diagram.     (TO:AP/hh 19/8/69)


MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr J Zippe &amp;amp; Dr J Springman)
A.  Sections of the 360mm abdominal mass show a liposarcoma.  The tumour has large anterior and posterior macroscopic components. Overall, the tumour is predominantly a well differentiated liposarcoma with a lesser component of dedifferentiated liposarcoma (mosaic pattern). The well differentiated liposarcomatous component includes lipoma-like, sclerosing and inflammatory subtypes, and consists of lobules of atypical adipose tissue with variation in adipocyte size, conspicuous nuclear enlargement and hyperchromasia, scattered lipoblasts and variably prominent fibrous septae. The foci of dedifferentiated liposarcoma (mosaic type pattern) appear largely confined to the posterior component, and consists of expansile foci of undifferentiated high grade sarcoma admixed within areas of well differentiated liposarcoma.

Anterior component:
The 210mm anterior nodule consists predominantly of lipoma-like liposarcoma with large areas of tumour necrosis.

Margins of excision (anterior component): The well differentiated liposarcoma extends broadly to all surgical margins.

Posterior component:
The 360mm posterior nodule consists predominantly of well differentiated liposarcoma (lipoma like, sclerosing and inflammatory types) with scattered admixed foci of dedifferentiated liposarcoma (mosaic pattern). Well differentiated liposarcoma abuts the renal capsule, infiltrates the subserosa of the attached bowel to abut the muscularis propria and interdigitates between, and encases, lymph nodes along the bed of the medial aorta. The parenchyma of the included colon, kidney, ureter and adrenal gland appear otherwise involved.
There is also a discrete 45mm mesenteric focus of organising fat necrosis with a calcified capsule containing foreign body type giant cells. There are scattered foci of dedifferentiated liposarcoma (mosaic pattern) consisting of discrete, infiltrative and expansile sclerotic nodules containing moderately cellular sheets of malignant pleomorphic, hyperchromatic sarcomatoid tumour cells and scattered islands of entrapped well differentiated liposarcoma. These individual foci represent a small component of this large liposarcoma (A23 and A28), with each individual focus up to 10mm, and arising in areas where there is an increased component of sclerosing type liposarcoma (A46 to A51).

Eight lymph nodes are identified (adjacent to the medial aortic bed at the posterior aspect), one of which shows extensive effacement by dedifferentiated liposarcoma (with areas of meningothelial-like whorls and variably sclerotic stroma). This is favoured to represent a metastatic deposit (1/8). At least two of the sample nodes also show direct involvement by well differentiated liposarcoma characterised by replacement of hilar adipose tissue by lipoma like liposarcoma.

Margins of excision (posterior component):
Well differentiated liposarcoma: extends broadly to all surgical margins.
Dedifferentiated liposarcoma (mosaic pattern):
- Posterior margin: Less than 0.1mm (A45) (nodal deposit).
- Lateral margin: 3.3mm (A34).
- Anterior margin: 5.5mm (A28).
- Medial margin, superior and inferior margin: clear of dedifferentiated liposarcoma.

B.  Sections of the 170mm scrotal mass show a well differentiated liposarcoma. The tumour has a predominantly lipoma-like morphology, as well as, a lesser component of sclerosing-type, and surrounds and encases the testis. Other areas show variable myxoid stroma and cystic change.  A discrete 25mm nodule shows increased cellularity and greater cytologic atypia, including prominent floret-like giant cells, consistent with a focus of dedifferentiated liposarcoma (pleomorphic liposarcoma-like morphology). The liposarcoma tumour spares the overlying skin, separated from the dermocutaneous tissue by skeletal fibres of the detrusor muscle. The testis shows active spermatogenesis.

Margins of excision:
Well differentiated liposarcoma extends to the spermatic cord margin and broadly to peripheral (medial, lateral, superficial and deep) margins and is greater than 5mm from the inferior margin (in proximity to testis).

Dedifferented liposarcoma (pleomorphic liposarcoma like): Less than 0.1mm from the deep margin; less than 1mm from lateral margin; clear of remaining margins (&amp;gt;10mm).


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left retroperitoneal mass: Well differentiated liposarcoma (present broadly at margins) with focal dedifferentiation (mosaic pattern), less than 0.1mm to posterior margin.

B.  Left scrotal mass: 170mm Well differentiated liposarcoma (present broadly at margins) with 25mm focus of dedifferentiated liposarcoma (less than 0.1mm from deep and 1mm from lateral margins).












SpecimenReceivedDate
2379-11-11 00:00:00


LastName
Antonio
