SPR no: 90A4083459
MRN no: 9004083
Site_name: ALBANY HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report90A40834 (90A4083459) BOGAERT, VERNON KERRY

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Urachal tumor, redo peritonectomy x3, distal stomach/proximal duodenum, small bowel x2, peritoneal tumour.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;PARTIAL GASTRECTOMY PLUS SMALL BOWEL&amp;quot;.  A partial gastrectomy specimen including small segment of duodenum.  Two short segments of small bowel and a piece of fibrofatty tissue.  The partial gastrectomy specimen greater curve measures 90mm, lesser curve is 30mm.  Proximal margin is 70mm in diameter.  Distal margin is 35mm in diameter.  The duodenal length is up to 20mm.  The serosa is roughened.  The proximal margin is inked green.  Distal margin is inked black.  On ------, an area of mucosa that is bulged, it measures 15mm x 10mm.  This area is 15mm from proximal margin, 40mm from distal margin.  On sectioning, the underlying submucosa shows a mucinous cut surface.  The mucinous area underlies the roughened serosa.  The rest of the mucosal surface appears unremarkable.  On sectioning through the duodenum, there is a mucinous area underlying the mucosa.  This area is 6mm from the distal margin and forms a nodular structure.  It measures 18x18 and is up to 15mm in depth.

(1  proximal margin; 2,3&amp;amp;4  nodule noted underlying the gastric mucosa; 5&amp;amp;6  distal margin including the mucinous area underlying the mucosa).

First segment of small bowel, it measures 90mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm.  Attached mesocolic fat is up to 10mm.  The serosa is roughened.  It is bulged over an area measuring 18mm.  On sectioning through this area, there is a cyst filled with mucin.  The rest of the mucosal surface is otherwise unremarkable.  One margin is inked blue, the other green.  The mucinous area is 10mm from the nearest blue inked margin.

(7  margins; 8&amp;amp;9  mucinous tumour).

The next segment of small bowel measures 35mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm.  The serosa shows an area of kinking centrally.  One margin is inked blue, the other green.  On opening, the mucosa is unremarkable.  On sectioning through the puckered area, there is a cyst filled with mucin.  It is 7mm from the nearest margin.

(10  margins; 11&amp;amp;12  mucinous area).

The piece of fatty tissue measures 40x35x10mm.  There is a firm nodule measuring 15x10mm.  On sectioning, the nodule shows a cyst filled with mucin and partially filled with pale white material.

(13&amp;amp;14  sections of fatty tissue ?peritoneal tumour).  RS (M-14/MC/km).

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. Z Johansing)
Sections of stomach show that the submucosa is expanded by a low grade mucinous neoplasm which focally invades the muscularis propria.  The tumour is composed of pools of extracellular mucin within which are floating frequent strips and aggregates of neoplastic mucinous epithelium.  The neoplastic mucinous epithelium appears to be low grade, however, there are very focal signet ring cells present (block 6).  No desmoplastic stromal reaction is seen.  The overlying acid secreting mucosa appears unremarkable. Also present are serosal deposits of mucin and neoplastic low grade epithelium.  Focally, deposits of mucin and epithelium are seen within the serosa, at the distal excision margin (block 6).  Deposits of acellular mucin are also seen on the serosal surface towards the distal end of the specimen. At 15mm from the excision margin, there are deposits of mucin and neoplastic epithelium, and some of these deposits show features suggestive of lymphovascular involvement, (although this is difficult to differentiate from retraction artefact).
The first segment of small intestine described macroscopically shows a mucin filled cyst which replaces the muscularis propria and extends from the submucosa through to the serosa.  It is partially lined by low grade neoplastic mucinous epithelium. The excision margins of this segment of small intestine are free of tumour.
The second segment of small intestine shows a similar mucin filled cystic deposit within the serosa and muscularis propria which is also lined by low grade mucinous epithelium.  The excision margins of this segment of small intestine are also free of tumour. The small intestinal mucosa appears unremarkable.
Sections of fatty tissue (? peritoneum) show a deposit of low grade mucinous neoplasm, with adjacent extracellular mucin showing extensive dystrophic calcification.  The neoplastic mucinous epithelium has low grade nuclear features, and no desmoplastic stromal reaction or signet ring cells are seen.
DIAGNOSIS:
PARTIAL GASTRECTOMY PLUS SMALL BOWEL :
-LOW GRADE MUCINOUS NEOPLASM INVOLVING STOMACH, SMALL INTESTINE AND PERITONEUM.  FOR DETAILS, PLEASE SEE TEXT.

28/6/2067 ank

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:
A Giemsa stain for Helicobacter-like organisms is negative. The above report and diagnosis remains unchanged.
