SPR no: 34H037897P
MRN no: 3420378
Site_name: COLEDALE HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportSUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (21.11.66):

CLINICAL:
Suspicious of ovarian cancer.  Extensive lymphadenopathy.  Ca 125 - 8266.  FOOSH.  Pelvic tissue, uterus, bilateral tubes and ovaries for frozen section.
12cm pelvic mass.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus fallopian tubes and ovaries&amp;quot;, consists of a lobulated mass measuring 170 x 145 x 70mm.  A cervix and uterus are identified measuring 90mm long, 70mm wide and 50mm anteroposteriorly.  Bowel is attached measuring 320mm long with a circumference of 35mm.  There is a large apparent tumour mass measuring approximately 140 x 120 x 65mm.  It is involving the fundus of the uterus, right and left adnexa and the bowel wall and may be focally ulcerating the mucosa of the bowel wall.  The mass has a partly smooth outer surface which has been been breached in several areas to reveal tan coloured tissue.  Separate tubes and ovaries tubes are not identified macroscopically.  A possible ovary is identified measuring 35 x 20 x 10mm.  On sectioning the endometrium appears less than 1mm thick.  The myometrium appears up to 20mm in maximum thickness.  Within the uterine canal is brown viscous fluid.  Attached to the outside of the tumour is a fibrous round mass measuring 20 x 10 x 10mm.  This mass has a pale white cut surface.  On sectioning, within the main tumour mass is a cystically dilated structure filled with pale yellow mucoid material measuring up to 20mm in maximum dimension. On the mucosal surface of the bowel is an area of ulceration measuring 25 x 20mm.  This is 120mm from the proximal bowel margin and 85mm from the distal bowel margin.  No definite lymph nodes are identified.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section one; 2 - frozen section two; 3 and 4 - possible ovarian remnant; 5 to 8 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix; 9 to 11 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix; 12 - remnant of right fallopian tube; 13 and 14 - pale white rounded mass attached to surface of tumour serially sectioned TS; 15 - cystic area inside tumour; 16 - LS proximal bowel margin; 17 - LS distal bowel margin; 18 to 20 - serial section of tumour to mucosa in area of ulceration; 21 - tumour and small bowel; 22 - RS tumour; 23 - RS tumour and overlying serosal surface.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Poorly differentiated carcinoma, favour serous.
Phone result to Anaesthetist by Dr J Capo at 11:59am on 07.09.2016

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of a triangular piece of omentum measuring 200 x 110 x 15mm.  No macroscopic tumour deposits are identified.  RS in 3 blocks.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Appendix&amp;quot;, consists of a fragment of appendix measuring 17 x 6 x 6mm.  The serosal surface is haemorrhagic, smooth and shiny.  The wall thickness is up to 2mm.  The mucosal surface appears unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 - shave surgical margin and LS base; 2 - mid section TS and LS tip.  AE.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Distal small bowel&amp;quot;, consists of a length of small bowel measuring 60mm in length with a diameter of 25mm.  Attached to the bowel is a area of fat measuring 50 x 25 x 15mm.  Adherent to the fat is a firm tan tumour measuring 15 x 10 x 2mm that has been cut through.  It is impossible to determine the orientation of this specimen.  The serosal surface appears haemorrhagic and has a fibrinous exudate.  The tumour is 35mm away from the serosal surface of the bowel wall and does not appear to macroscopically extend into the bowel wall.
Blocks: 1 - LS bowel margins; 2 - TS from mucosa to serosa; 3 - firm nodular tumour attached to fat; 4 - lymph node as seen.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right paracolic gutter nodule&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 17 x 10 x 3mm.  BAE 1 block.

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Common iliac lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a ragged collection of fibrofatty tissue measuring 30 x 25 x 5mm.  The tissue appears pale pink to tan and un-encapsulated.  Specimen serially sectioned TS and AE 2 blocks.

G.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left obturator lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a fibrofatty piece of tissue measuring 37 x 30 x 20mm.  Within the tissue is an apparent lymph node measuring up to 32mm. On sectioning the lymph node has a firm white to pink appearance.  Serially sectioned TS in 8 blocks.  AE.

H.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Distal donut&amp;quot;, consists of a donut of bowel measuring 10mm in length with a diameter of 15mm.  Specimen bisected and AE 2 blocks.

I.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Proximal donut&amp;quot;, consists of a donut of bowel measuring 5mm in  length with a circumference of 15mm.  Specimen bisected and AE 1 block. (MS/vo 10.11.66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr J Blakey):
A.  Sections show a high grade malignancy with focal papilliform architecture containing occasional multinucleated tumour cells with hyperchromatic chromatin.  Scattered psammoma bodies are present.  The appearances are consistent with high grade serous carcinoma.  There is extensive involvement of the left para-adnexal structures where tumour is seen in association with the left fallopian tube however, no residual left ovary is identified.  There is extensive involvement of the uterine serosa with invasion into the outer myometrium together with lymphovascular invasion within the remainder of the myometrium.  The endometrium is intact which appears inactive.  The ectocervical and endocervical mucosa show no significant abnormality.  Carcinoma also infiltrates the attached large bowel, extending through all layers and ulcerating the bowel mucosa.  Carcinoma is present at one bowel margin.  Two (2) colonic lymph nodes show metastatic serous carcinoma as well as a single (1) additional lymph node.

B.  Sections of omentum show no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

C.  Sections of the appendix show total fibrous obliteration.  Foci of serous carcinoma are present on the serosal surface.

D.  Sections show serous carcinoma within the mesentery of the small bowel.  Tumour does not invade into muscularis propria and the mucosa is intact.  Serous carcinoma is present at one bowel margin.  A single (1) lymph node is identified which shows no significant abnormality.

E.  Sections show serous carcinoma.

F.  Sections show extensive serous carcinoma.  No lymph node parenchyma is seen.

G.  One (1) of the four (4) lymph nodes identified show metastatic serous carcinoma.

H.  Sections of colon show a hyperplastic polyp.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

I.  Sections show foci of serous carcinoma within the mesentery of the colon.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries:
- High grade serous carcinoma, of possible left ovarian or fallopian tube origin.
- Extensive involvement of uterine serosa and myometrium.
- Invasion into attached large bowel with mucosal ulceration.
- Three lymph nodes positive for serous carcinoma.

B.  Omentum:  No significant abnormality.

C.  Appendix:  Serous carcinoma on appendiceal serosa.

D.  Distal small bowel:
- Serous carcinoma in bowel mesentery with positive bowel margin
- Single benign lymph node

E.  Right paracholic gutter nodule:  Serous carcinoma.

F.  Common iliac lymph node:  Serous carcinoma.

G.  Left obturator lymph node:   Single lymph node positive for serous carcinoma.

H.  Distal donut:  No significant abnormality.

I.  Proximal donut:  Serous carcinoma in bowel mesentery.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (21.11.66, Dr J Alan):
H, I.  The slides have been reviewed as requested.

H.  A small hyperplastic polyp is confirmed; this is incidental and of no consequence.

I.  The described serous carcinoma is in subserosal fibrofat, not in mesentery as reported above.  There is no mesentery attached to the donut.
