SPR no: 74U223481U
MRN no: 7472234
Site_name: T472
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report
CLINICAL:
72 year old male uncinate process pancreatic mass - initially involving SMA, neoadjuvant chemotherapy with radiological improvement.  Tumour not palpable intraoperatively.  Right hilar node taken separately.  1 long suture to PV margin, 2 sutures to SMA, 3 sutures to uncinate margin.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Pancreaticoduodenectomy&amp;quot;, consists of a whipple specimen plus two pieces of detached omentum.  The stomach and duodenum measures 310mm in length, consisting of 290mm of small bowel, in continuum with 20mm of stomach.  The stomach resection margin is inked black and the small bowel resection margin is inked blue.  The serosal surface of the stomach and small bowel are unremarkable.  The mucosa of both stomach and small bowel are unremarkable.

The pancreas measures 90 x 50 x 25mm.  There are orienting sutures in place.The margins are inked as follows, SMA margin is inked black, portal vein (PV) margin is inked blue, uncinate process is inked green, anterior is inked red, posterior surface is inked yellow, Pancreatic resection margin is inked black.  The attached segment of common bile duct measures 10mm in length, with 5mm outer diameter.The pancreas has been sliced into ten slices form superior to inferior.  The cut surface shows unremarkable pancreas.  No focal lesions seen.

Several lymph nodes identified on the superior anterior of the pancreas.

The separate detached omentum  measuring 160 x 150 x 50mm.  The cut surface shows uniform fatty tissue.  No focal lesions seen.

Blocks: 1 - representative sections of small bowel and stomach resection margin; 2 - representative sections of normal small bowel and stomach; 3 - common bowel duct resection margin in longitudinal sections; 4 &amp;amp; 5 - pancreatic resection margin longitudinal sections; 6 to 11 - uncinate process longitudinal sections (inferior slice , slice 10); 12 to 18 - lymph nodes from superior anterior (12 -one lymph node, 13- one lymph node, 14 -one lymph node, 15 and 16-  one lymph node, 17 to 18 one lymph node; 19 to 22 - RS of omentum; 23 to 31 - all of the pancreas from superior to inferior).

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right sided hilar lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of two pieces of fatty tissue, measuring 20 x 15 x 17mm.  One lymph node identified measuring 18mm across.
Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - one lymph node; 3 - remaining tissue.
(TO: LM; LM/rs 5/12/67)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr T Goulas):
A. The entire pancreas has been embedded and examined at multiple levels.

Adjacent to the SMA there is a 20mm area of fibrosis and organising haemorrhage. Haemisiderin laden macrophages and yellow-brown crystals are seen. Patchy fat necrosis, fibrosis and atrophy are seen the adjacent pancreas.

No malignancy is seen.

The common bile duct and pancreatic ducts show no evidence of dysplasia.

26 lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy. No fibrosis is seen.

The duodenum, ampulla of Vater and distal stomach appear unremarkable.

B. Sections show a lymph node with no evidence of malignancy. No fibrosis is seen.


COMMENT
The entire pancreas has been embedded. All pancreatic blocks have been examined at multiple levels. There is a localised area of fibrosis and organising haemorrhage in the pancreas, adjacent to the SMA. The adjacent  pancreas shows patchy fibrosis, fat necrosis and atrophy. This may represent treatment effect (i.e. complete response) in the appropriate clinical context.

No malignancy is seen.

27 lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy.
