SPR no: 95C549094J
MRN no: 95154909
Site_name: ROBINA HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report95C54909 (95C549094J) PLUFF, TYLER

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Not provided

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, LEFT OVARY AND TUBE + RIGHT OVARY AND TUBE + DIAPHRAGM PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;.  Multiple pieces of tissue as described below:

A left ovary and fallopian tube, with ovary measuring 45x32x25mm.  The ovary has numerous small cystic structures present, 6-10mm in size.  The cyst has a smooth wall with small haemorrhages.  There is a haemorrhagic cystic structure at one end, with possible corpus luteum, 16mm in maximum dimension.  In addition, in the centre of the specimen, there is a golden-yellow corpus luteum, 8mm in maximum dimension.  The left fallopian tube is 56mm in length and 6-12mm in diameter.  It appears macroscopically unremarkable.  Within the ovary there is a more solid area centrally which is pale with admixed areas of golden yellow discolouration, possibly reflecting past corpus luteum.  It measures 13mm in maximum extent.

(1 section of left ovary, showing corpus luteum; 2 cystic areas in left ovary; 3 more solid area in left ovary; 4 haemorrhagic cyst in left ovary;

The left ovary and tube have an aggregate weight of 21.9g.

5&amp;amp;6 each contain one longitudinally bisected fimbrial end of the left fallopian tube; 7 RS TS from remainder of left fallopian tube;

The gallbladder measures 82x26x22mm.  The serosal surface is smooth and shiny.  The mucosa is green and velvety.  There are no gallstones present within the gallbladder lumen.  The average wall thickness is 2-3mm.

8 shaved cystic duct margin and section adjacent showing gallbladder neck and possible cystic duct node; 9 TS of gallbladder body and LS of fundus;

The right fallopian tube cannot be definitively identified.  There are two areas of fibrofatty tissue, containing a white tubular structure (?fallopian tube/ ?fibrosed umbilical vessels). These two pieces of fibroadipose tissue measure 45x18x12mm, and 150x70x20mm.  The tubular structure seen on cross-section of these pieces of tissue ranges in diameter from 3-6mm in size.

10 RS TS from the smaller piece of fibrofatty tissue; 11 RS TS from the larger piece of fibrofatty tissue;

A smaller separate unoriented piece of fibrofatty tissue, possibly containing fallopian tube is present 28x15x8mm.

12 sections from the smaller piece of fibroadipose tissue, possibly containing tube;

A piece of presumed greater omentum is present, consisting of lobulated  fibrofatty tissue, 425mm x 120mm x 15mm .  There are focal haemorrhagic areas but no definite areas of mucinous tumour.

13&amp;amp;14 RS of greater omentum;

There is a large piece of peritoneal tissue, 482x85x15mm.  On this peritoneal tissue there are suspicious deposits of possible mucinous tumour, 3-12mm in size.

15-18 RS from the largest piece of peritoneum;

There are numerous smaller unoriented pieces of peritoneal tissue, 11-73mm in size and 135x100x30mm in aggregate.  One of these pieces of tissue is pale and sclerotic on cross-section with areas of probable attached muscle.  Within these pieces of fibroadipose tissue, a possible right fallopian tube is seen, 30mm in length and 3mm in diameter.

19 section from the separate peritoneal tissue, possibly showing muscle; 20 RS peritoneal tissue with a solid area; 21 five TS of possible fallopian tube; 22 additional sections from the peritoneal tissue, possibly showing tumour deposits).  RS (M-22/LK/nh).

Further tissue:
(23 sections from the separate unoriented pieces of omental tissue, showing possible tube; 24 two sections of possible umbilical vessel / possible tube; 25 sections from the largest piece of peritoneal tissue, including possible tube or possible vessel; 26 further sections from the largest piece of omentum showing possible tube or possible vessel).  RS (M-26/LK/nh).

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr Y Marley)
Histology shows some deposits of low grade mucinous neoplasm within strips of peritonealised tissue and focal areas of small deposits within the fatty omental tissue. The deposits of tumour are characterised by organising extracellular mucin surrounded by patchy chronic inflammation and fibrosis with a low cellularity population of low grade atypical columnar mucinous epithelium. No high grade or frankly malignant adenocarcinoma is seen. No other deposits are seen in any of the other tissue samples. Otherwise the gallbladder appears relatively unremarkable. The left ovary contains numerous cystic follicles with a partially haemorrhagic and necrotic corpus luteum surrounded by granulomatous inflammatory response. The left fallopian tube is unremarkable. The right tube is not definitively identified. Other pieces of fibrofascial tissue with some fibrous scarring and adjacent skeletal muscle are also present (?diaphragm). Two small reactive lymph nodes are also present. Part of the presumed falciform ligament containing a partially obliterated medium sized venous channel is also  present and some other vessels.

DIAGNOSIS:
GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, LEFT OVARY &amp;amp; TUBE, RIGHT TUBE, DIAPHRAGM, PERITONEAL DISEASE -
- RELATIVELY SMALL PERITONEAL DEPOSITS OF LOW GRADE MUCINOUS NEOPLASM.

22/11/2016 ht
