SPR no: 73S366851A
MRN no: 7373668
Site_name: TAILEM BEND HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report73S36685 (73S366851A) MANTIFEL, FOREST

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Appendix cancer with peritoneal mets.  Peritonectomy.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;GALLBLADDER, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, RIGHT COLON, SMALL BOWEL, OVARIES, TUBE, UTERUS, SEGMENT 1 LIVER + PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;.
A gallbladder, spleen with attached omentum, liver, right hemi, two segments of small bowel, a segment of large bowel, uterus with attached cervix and bilateral tubes and ovaries, posteriorly attached large bowel.

Gallbladder:  The gallbladder measures 65mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm.  The serosal surface shows a deposit of tumour measuring up to 25mm in maximum dimension.  It has a tan cut surface.  The mucosa is granular green, no stones found within the lumen.

(1 cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 2 body including tumour deposit; 3 fundus;

Liver:  The segment of liver weighs 5g and measures 40x20x15mm.  The capsule appears unremarkable.  The resection margin is inked blue.  On sectioning through the liver, there is a pale area adjacent to the resection margin measuring up to 15mm in maximum dimension.  The rest of the liver parenchyma is brown and unremarkable.

4&amp;amp;5 sections of liver;

Spleen:  The spleen weighs 180g and measures 95x80x50mm.  The capsule shows a pale area measuring up to 40mm.  It also partially stripped close to the hilum.  On sectioning, the cut surface is brown.  No discrete lesion is identified macroscopically.

6&amp;amp;7 spleen [showing pale capsular area].

Section of fatty tissue attached to spleen consistent with omentum measuring 150x65x30mm. It is diffusely firm and appears macroscopically involved by tumour.

8&amp;amp;9 sections of omentum;

Small bowel:  The first segment measures 840mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm.  The attached mesentery is up to 35mm wide.  The serosa and mesentery show pale areas with ?tumour involvement.  On opening the lumen, the mucosa shows normal mucosal folds.  No discrete mass lesions are identified.  The second segment of small bowel measures 360mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm.  The serosal surface shows pale white areas adjacent to the mesentery with ?involvement of tumour.  On opening the lumen, it shows normal mucosal folds.  No discrete mass lesion is identified.

10&amp;amp;11 sections taken from longer segment of small bowel showing serosal deposits of tumour; 12 sections from mesentery of longer segment of small bowel showing deposits of tumour; 13 sections of shorter segment of small bowel showing serosal deposit of tumour;

Right hemi:  Terminal ileum, caecum, ascending colon, appendix and attached mesocolic fat. It measures 335mm in length with a proximal diameter of 20mm, distal diameter of 35mm.  The terminal ileum by itself is 165mm, ascending colon is 170mm, mesocolic fat is up to 60mm.  The appendix measures 80mm with maximum diameter of 15mm.  It is diffusely involved by tumour and has a pale firm white cut surface.  Also noted on the serosal surface of the ascending colon and small bowel are nodular deposits of tumour.  The appendix is pulled up and adherent to the large bowel with the tip 20mm from the distal resection margin and involves the serosal surface.  The lesion is 4mm from the radial margin.  The proximal margin is inked blue, distal black, radial margin green.  On sectioning through the appendix, it has a firm yellow to pale white cut surface.  There is 2mm polyp noted at the ascending colon.

14 proximal and distal margins; 15 polyp; 16 LS through the base of appendix including caecum; 17&amp;amp;18 TS through appendix showing lesion; 19&amp;amp;20 composite slice of TS of appendix and showing serosa; 21 LS of appendix; 22 nodular deposits on serosa of terminal ileum; 23 nodular deposit on serosal surface of ascending colon; 24 tumour deposits within mesocolic fat of ascending colon; 25-28 possible lymph nodes [25 six nodes, 26 six nodes, 27 one node bisected, 28 five nodes];

A short segment of large bowel measuring 65mm a maximum diameter of 40mm.  The serosal surface shows a deposit of tumour.  The mucosa is otherwise unremarkable.

29 separate segment of large bowel;

Uterus with attached cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries, and segment of large bowel consistent with rectum.  Received en mass.  The segment  of large bowel is 230mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm.  The proximal margin inked blue, distal black.  The large bowel shows multiple nodular deposits consistent with tumour.  The mucosal surface is otherwise unremarkable.

The uterus with attached cervix weighs 87g and measures 70mm superior to inferior.  The anterior endomyometrium is 24mm, the posterior endomyometrium is 15mm.  The endometrium is less than 1mm thick.  The ectocervix measures 25x25mm with a slit-like os 6mm.  It is cream-coloured and unremarkable.  The serosa shows a nodule posteriorly.  The nodule has a pale white whorled cut surface consistent with leiomyoma.  The anterior is inked blue, posterior black.  Anteriorly at the lower uterine segment is a firm pale area ?involvement of tumour on the serosa.  This area measures 15mm in maximal extent.

30 proximal and distal margins of large bowel consistent with rectum; 31 sections of large bowel consistent with rectum showing serosal nodular deposits of tumour; 32 anterior cervix; 33 posterior cervix; 34&amp;amp;35 anterior lower uterine segment with ?tumour deposit; 36 anterior endomyometrium; 37 posterior endomyometrium; 38 pouch of Douglas; 39 subserosal nodule consistent with leiomyoma.

Right ovary and fallopian tube:  In aggregate weighing 46g.  The ovary measures 40x40x40mm.  The serosal surface shows a roughened area ?adhesion.  The fallopian tube measures 50mm in length with a maximum diameter of 6mm.  The serosa is smooth.  The ovary and serosal surface is inked blue.  It is then sectioned.  On sectioning, the cut surface shows involvement of the entire ovary by a pale white firm tumour.  No normal ovarian tissue is identified.

40 right fallopian tube; 41-45 right ovary [tumour];

Left ovary and fallopian tube:  In aggregate weighing 8g.  The ovary measures 20x15x5mm.  The fallopian tube is 45mm in length with a maximum diameter of 6mm.  The serosa is smooth.  On sectioning through the left ovary, it has a firm normal appearing cut surface.

46 left fallopian tube; 47 left ovary;

There are separate pieces of fibrotic tissue consistent with peritoneum, altogether measuring 220x120x20mm.  They show nodular areas consistent with tumour deposits.

48 peritoneum involved by tumour; 49 tumour block).  RS (M-49/MC/nh)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. S Mazanec)
Sections of gallbladder show ulcerated mucosa.  In the serosa extending into the gallbladder, there is deposition of poorly differentiated signet ring cell adenocarcinoma.
Sections of liver parenchyma show multiple deposits of signet ring cell adenocarcinoma. The uninvolved liver parenchyma shows mild microvesicular steatosis.  Tumour deposit extends to the soft tissue resection margin.  A small focus of subcapsular deposit is also identified.
Sections of spleen show thickened and fibrotic capsule. There is focal iron encrustation noted.  Occasional atypical cells are noted suspicious for involvement of tumour within the capsule.
The omentum shows extension involvement by poorly differentiated signet ring cell adenocarcinoma surrounded by fibrosis and chronic inflammation.
Section from the small bowel segments show multiple foci of metastatic tumour deposits on the serosa and muscularis propria. The mucosal surface appears unremarkable.
The right hemicolectomy specimen shows unremarkable small bowel mucosa at the terminal ileum resection margin.  The ascending colonic polyp shows features of sessile serrated adenoma. Sections through the appendix show an infiltrating tumour with features of poorly differentiated signet ring cell adenocarcinoma.  The carcinoma involves the full thickness of the appendix extending to involve the free serosal surface.  There is adherence of the appendiceal wall to the serosa of the terminal ileum.  Locules of mucin are present within the tumour.  There is focal lymphovascular invasion.  The terminal ileum adjacent to the main tumour mass also shows deposition of signet ring cell adenocarcinoma on the serosa.  Metastatic carcinoma is seen in 4 out of 10 lymph nodes identified.
Sections of the separate large bowel segment received also show multiple serosal deposits of metastatic signet ring cell adenocarcinoma.
Sections of the cervix show Nabothian cysts and mild chronic inflammation. The endometrium is atrophic.  In the myometrium, there is deposition of signet ring cell adenocarcinoma.  The tumour involves free serosal surface and soft tissue margin.  Occasional intramural leiomyomas are also identified.  In the Pouch of Douglas, focal tumour deposits are present.
The wall of the right fallopian tube show extensive deposition by carcinoma.  Similar appearance is present in the right ovary.
The left fallopian tube also show foci of metastatic carcinoma.  Occasional tumour cells are also seen in the serosa of the left ovary.
DIAGNOSIS:
GALLBLADDER, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, RIGHT COLON, SMALL BOWEL, OVARIES, TUBES, UTERUS, SEGMENT 1 LIVER AND PERITONEAL DISEASE -
-POORLY DIFFERENTIATED SIGNET RING CELL ADENOCARCINOMA INVOLVING APPENDIX,  GALLBLADDER, OMENTUM, RIGHT COLON, SMALL BOWEL, BOTH OVARIES AND TUBES, LIVER, UTERUS AND PERITONEUM.
-METASTATIC CARCINOMA IN 4 OUT OF 10 LYMPH NODES.

1/10/2066 ank
