SPR no: 24T993059D
MRN no: 2479930
Site_name: BEAUFORT & SKIPTON HEALTH SERVICES - BEAUFORT CAMPUS
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report24T99305 (24T993059D) MACLACHLAN, SMOKEY LAMAR

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
CRC with peritoneal mets.
Hysterectomy (uterus + ovary).
Low anterior resection (old colorectal anastomosis).
Peritoneum, omentum, gallbladder, right iliac lymph node.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;OMENTUM, GALLBLADDER, UTERUS + SIGMOID&amp;quot;.  Consists of gallbladder, section of skin consistent with umbilicus, omentum, uterus with attached cervix and bilateral tubes, segment of large bowel consistent with rectum and two pieces of fibrofatty tissue ? peritoneum.

Gallbladder measures 85mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm. The serosa is smooth.  The wall is up to 2mm thick.  Mucosa is granular green in appearance.  No stones are found within the lumen.

(1 cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 2 body and fundus)

Sections of skin consistent with umbilicus. The skin measures 50x25mm.  Underlying fat and attached peritoneum measures 100x110x30mm.  The skin is unremarkable.  The underlying fatty tissue with attached peritoneum shows a firm area.  On sectioning through this area the cut surface is fibrotic.

(13&amp;amp;4 CS through umbilicus; 5 section through firm area)

Omentum - it measures 300x220x20mm.  On sectioning no firm or suspicious areas are identified.

(6&amp;amp;7 RS of omentum)

Uterus with attached cervix and bilateral attached tubular structures ? fallopian tube, altogether it weighs 96g and measures 75mm superior to inferior, 35mm intracornual distance.  Anterior endomyometrium measures 20mm, posterior endomyometrium 20mm.  Endometrium is up to 2mm thick.  Ectocervix is 25x25mm with a slit like os 6mm.  There is also attached peritoneum.  It measures 130x80x20mm.  No ovarian tissue is identified.  There are two tubular structures noted ? fallopian tube.  Anterior is inked blue, posterior black.  Within the Pouch of Douglas peritoneum there is a firm area ? tumour deposit.  The right ? fallopian tube tube measures 30mm in length with a maximum diameter of 6mm. The left ? fallopian tube measures 45mm in length x 6mm diameter. The serosa shows two nodules 2mm maximum dimension.  On sectioning through the myometrium, it is unremarkable.  No discrete lesion is noted.

(8 anterior cervix; 9 posterior cervix; 10 posterior lower uterine segment including Pouch of Douglas; 11 anterior endomyometrium; 12 posterior endomyometrium; 13&amp;amp;14 sections through serosal nodules; 15 firm areas in Pouch of Douglas; 16 ? right round ligament; 17 ? left round ligament; 18 sections through attached peritoneal tissue).

Segment of large bowel consistent with rectum.  It measures 170mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm.  There is attached mesocolic fat up to 70mm wide.  The serosa shows areas of roughening ? tumour involvement.  On opening the lumen mucosa shows a site of anastomosis.  No discrete mass lesion is identified.  Proximal inked blue, distal black, radial green.  At the anastomotic site the mucosa is unremarkable.

(19 proximal margin; 20 distal margin; 21 sections through serosal roughening; 22 sections through site of anastomosis)

Within the attached peritoneum are multiple nodules.

(23 peritoneal nodule; 24 five possible lymph nodes)

Separate pieces of fibrofatty tissue ? peritoneum altogether measures 130x120x20mm.  Within is a firm area measuring up to 12mm maximum dimension.  On sectioning through this area the cut surface is fibrotic.

(25 section through fibrotic area). RS (M-25)

B.  &amp;quot;RIGHT INTERNAL ILIAC NODE&amp;quot;.  Consists of one piece of fatty tissue.  It measures 30x15x6mm.  Two possible nodes are identified 15 and 15mm.

(1 one possible node bisected; 2 one possible node bisected).  AE (M-2/MC/ank)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. G. Edelbrock)
A.  Sections show disseminated well differentiated adenocarcinoma with desmoplastic stroma in keeping with origin from colorectal primary involving peritoneum deep to the umbilicus, Pouch of Douglas peritoneum, serosa of uterus, serosa of colonic segment and separately submitted peritoneal fragments.

The gallbladder shows no significant abnormality and is not involved by tumour.  The umbilical skin is also unremarkable.  Sections through the omentum show a reactive lymph node with no evidence of tumour.

The cervix shows no significant abnormality.  The endometrium is inactive. The myometrium shows deep adenomyosis.

The separately submitted segment of colon shows no focal mucosal abnormalities.  A reactive lymph node recovered from the mesentery shows reactive changes.

Three separate lymph node recovered from the peritoneal fragments also show reactive changes.

B.  Sections show two reactive lymph nodes.    There is no evidence of malignancy.

DIAGNOSIS:
OMENTUM, GALLBLADDER, UTERUS AND SIGMOID :
- DISSEMINATED WELL DIFFERENTIATED COLORECTAL ADENOCARCINOMA INVOLVING PERITONEUM DEEP TO UMBILICUS, POUCH OF DOUGLAS, UTERINE SEROSA, SEPARATELY SUBMITTED PERITONEAL FRAGMENTS AND SEROSA OF SIGMOID COLON.
- OMENTUM AND GALLBLADDER ARE NOT INVOLVED BY TUMOUR.

RIGHT INTERNAL ILIAC NODE :
-NO TUMOUR SEEN IN 2 LYMPH NODES EXAMINED.

26/4/2067 ank
