SPR no: 30P552549V
MRN no: 30655254
Site_name: OMEO DISTRICT HEALTH
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
52 y.o. premenopausal, a large right complex ovarian cyst with normal tumour markers.  Appearance is consistent with dermoid.  Paste-like consistency with hair follicles.


MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right ovarian tube&amp;quot;, consists of a disrupted cyst 75 x 70 x up to 6mm. The attached fallopian tube is 45mm long and up to 10mm in diameter.  There is abundant paste like yellow material and hair shafts.  A tooth-like hard structure is seen in the inner surface of the cyst, 20 x 15 x 10mm.  The remainder of the inner surface of the cyst is pink to light brown.  No papillary excrescences are seen.
Blocks:  1 - representatives the fallopian tube, 2 to 8 - representatives of the cyst.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left fallopian tube&amp;quot;, consists of a fallopian tube 70mm long and up to 9mm in diameter.  On slicing no focal lesions are seen.
Blocks:  1 &amp;amp; 2 - representatives.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omental biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of fatty tissue 100 x 60 x up to 10mm.  On slicing no nodules are seen.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - random sections

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Endometrial curettings&amp;quot;, consists of tan fragments and mucoid materials 25 x 20 x 4mm in aggregate.  All embedded in 1 block.  (HM/eh 26/3/2067)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr J Guiski):
A.  Sections of ovary show a mature cystic teratoma.  The fallopian tube is unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

B.  Sections of fallopian tube show no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

C.  Sections show normal appearing omental tissue.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

D.  Sections show proliferative endometrium.  There is no evidence of endometritis, hyperplasia or malignancy.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right ovary and tube - Mature cystic teratoma.

B.  Left fallopian tube - No significant abnormality.

C.  Omental biopsy - No significant abnormality.

D.  Endometrial curettings - Proliferative endometrium.
