SPR no: 69Q562005G
MRN no: 69656200
Site_name: CLARE HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report69Q56200 (69Q562005G) LONGOBARDI, KURTIS HOLLIS

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Appendix cancer. Peritonectomy.
Right colon + appendix. Small intestine. Total colon + rectosigmoid. Spleen. Gallbladder. Peritoneum.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;GALLBLADDER, SPLEEN WITH ATTACHED OMENTUM, SEGMENT OF SMALL BOWEL, A RIGHT HEMI AND THREE SEGMENT OF LARGE BOWEL&amp;quot;. Also received are multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue consistent with peritoneum.

Gallbladder.
Measures 75mm in length with a maximum diameter of 45mm. It is received collapsed. Serosa is covered by a mucinous deposit of tumour. On the serosa is also attached fatty tissue. The wall is up to 11mm thick. Within the lumen are no stones. The mucosa is granular green in appearance.

(1 cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 2 body; 3 fundus).

Spleen.
Weighs 81g. It measures 95x70x25mm. On the capsule are mucinous deposits of tumour. On sectioning, the cut surface is brown and unremarkable. Also within the attached hilar tissue is tumour deposit.

(4&amp;amp;5 sections of spleen showing tumour deposits on capsule and hilar fat).

Omentum.
The attached omentum measures 410x145mm. It is caked by mucinous tumour deposits.

(6- omentum; 7-8 omentum showing omental caking [8 tumour block]).

Small bowel.
The segment of small bowel measures 260mm in length with a maximum diameter of 15mm. Attached mesentery is up to 60mm. The serosa shows areas of kinking on the mesentery are mucinous deposits of tumour. On opening the lumen, it is unremarkable.

(9&amp;amp;10 area showing kinked serosa; 11 area showing tumour deposit on mesentery; 12&amp;amp;13 possible lymph node from small bowel mesentery; 12 ?seven nodes; 13 ?seven nodes).

Right hemicolectomy.
Comprising of terminal ileum, ascending colon, appendix and attached mesocolic fat. It measures 425mm in length with a proximal diameter of 20mm, distal diameter of 35mm (terminal ileum by itself is 385mm, ascending colon is 40mm). Attached mesocolic fat is up to 50mm. Appendix measures 40mm in length x 18mm in maximum diameter. It is dilated and filled with mucinous tumour. The serosal surfaces of the appendix, colon and attached mesocolic fat and mesentery are noted by mucinous tumour deposit. Proximal margin is inked blue, distal margin black.

(14 proximal and distal margin; 15 segment of small bowel showing kinked serosa and tumour deposit on mesentery; 16 segment of large bowel showing attached mesocolic fat with caked by tumour and one section showing tumour deposit on serosa; 17-27 appendix embedded from base to tip [17&amp;amp;18 longitudinal through base; 19-27 transverse section [27 tip]; 28-30 possible lymph node from right mesocolic fat; 28 three nodes; 29 six nodes; 30 one node bisected]; 31 representative section of lymph node from terminal ileum mesenteric fat [six nodes]).

Longest segment of large bowel.
It measures 490mm in length and ranges in diameter from 30-40mm. One end is dilated. The wall is attenuated in the dilated portion. There is also attached mesocolic fat up to 70mm wide. The serosa and mesocolic fat is covered by deposit of tumour diffusely. The mucosa shows multiple diverticuli and areas of mucosal flattening. No discreet lesions are otherwise identified.

(32 representative; 33 section showing tumour deposit on serosa and attached mesocolic fat).

The second piece of large bowel consistent with rectosigmoid measures 180mm with a maximum diameter of 20mm. The attached mesocolic fat is up to 60mm. There is also attached peritoneum, measuring up to 150mm wide. The serosa, peritoneum and mesocolic fat are covered by tumour deposits. On opening the lumen, no discreet lesion is identified. There are multiple diverticuli noted.

(34 tumour deposits on attached mesocolic fat plus peritoneum; 35 tumour on serosa).

The smallest segment of bowel, measures 45mm in length and ranges in diameter from 25-50mm. The serosa is kinked and involved by tumour.

(36 shorter segment of showing kinked serosa with tumour deposit).

Pieces of fibrofatty tissue consistent with peritoneum, all together 170x140x30mm. The peritoneum is caked by firm nodules of tumour.

(37 tumour deposit on peritoneum). RS (M-37/ MC/cy)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr Q Kilduff)
Sections of the gallbladder, spleen and omentum show numerous serosal deposits of mucinous tumour. Within the mucin and also within fibroblastic reaction and infiltrating into adipose tissue are nests and groups of tumour cells with intermediate to focally high grade nuclear features including nuclear hyperchromasia and nuclear shape irregularities. There is multi-vacuolated cytoplasm in some cells including some signet ring cells and in some nests of tumour cells there is a somewhat goblet cell like morphology of some cell groups.
Sections of the first described segment  of small bowel show numerous serosal, subserosal and mesenteric deposits of mucinous tumour with groups on nests of cells with mucinous cytoplasm including signet ring cells. These infiltrate within the mucus pools and also within fibroblastic and fibrous stroma.
Sections of the right hemicolectomy show destruction of the appendix by mucinous tumour composed of mucinous pools with nests and groups of cells with  mucinous cytoplasm including signet ring cells. These are also seen on the serosal surfaces of the adjacent mesoappendix and mesocolon and on the serosal surface of the segment of terminal ileum. At the base of the appendix there is infiltration of poorly differentiated mucinous tumour within the submucosa and mucosa and muscularis propria of the appendix and caecum. Signet ring cells and some groups with goblet cell morphology are seen.
Two lymph nodes are identified and these show reactive changes.
The other nodules are macroscopically thought to be possible lymph nodes representing extranodal deposits of mucinous tumour within mesentery/mesocolon.
Sections of the next described longest segment of large bowel show serosal deposits of tumour similar to that previously described.
Sections of the second piece of large bowel show serosal deposits of tumour similar to that previously described.
Sections of the smallest segment of bowel consists of small bowel with full thickness involvement of the serosa, muscularis propria, submucosa and mucosa with infiltrating tumour composed of nests, groups and cords of cells with  abundant mucinous cytoplasm.
Section of the separate fragment of fibrofatty tissue consistent with peritoneum show nodules of tumour similar to that previously described.
Immunohistochemistry: There is positive staining for CK20 and CDX-2. CK7 is negative. Rare cells are positive for chromogranin and synaptohysin in the metastatic deposits and occasional cells are positive for there in the section from the base of the appendix. Ki-67 shows variable staining that ranges from less than 10% to at least 20% in some areas/nests of tumour.
COMMENT:
The appearances are those of poorly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells and the primary site appears to be the appendix. There are also nests of cells with a goblet cell morphology, however the majority of the tumour tissue does not show features of neuroendocrine differentiation. Nevertheless the appearances are suggestive that the tumour arose in a pre-existing goblet cell carcinoid but this has been overrun by mucinous adenocarcinoma.
The peritoneal disease is classified as high grade mucinous carcinoma peritonei (with signet ring cells) [PSOGI classification system].
DIAGNOSIS:
PERITONECTOMY:
APPENDICEAL MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA WITH SIGNET RING CELLS AND,
HIGH GRADE MUCINOUS CARCINOMA PERITONEI WITH SIGNET RING CELLS - SEE TEXT AND COMMENT.

22/2/2066 ht
