SPR no: 28E399912Z
MRN no: 2813999
Site_name: DENILIQUIN HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (18.1.66):

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (11.1.66):

CLINICAL:
Exenteration.  Recurrence adenocarcinoma of the cervix.  Assess for clear margins.
Additional - specimen oriented Dr DANNIE DIBIASE (surgical fellow):
- Specimen includes remaining bladder (previous partial cystectomy), urethra, stenosed vagina (previous radiotherapy), colorectum (slightly above and below the anterior peritoneal reflection), anus, and central vulva, all adherent to each other and with a central tumour mass
- Vulva and vagina are noted to have several surgical defects, with lateral vaginal walls not identifiable
- Only single ureteric stump identified
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Small bowel nodule&amp;quot;, consists of a tan nodule with smooth surface, 3 x 2 x 2mm.  AE for frozen section in 1 block.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Fibrous/scar with inflammation.
Phone results to Dr H Traughber by Dr H Garced at 9:49am on 24.10.16

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right peritoneal nodule&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of tan tissue with smooth surface at one side.  Embedded on edge.  AE for frozen section in 1 block.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Foreign body response to ?diathermy.
Phone results to Dr H Hoder by Dr H Hostler at 9:53am on 24.10.16

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Total pelvic exenteration including rectum and vagina&amp;quot;, consists of a mass of adherent fibrosed tissue, 160 x 120 x 80mm.  The specimen includes a segment of large bowel including rectum and anus (210mm length x 100mm circumference), bladder (66 x 55 x 30mm), ragged vulval tissue (22 x 20mm), urethra (30mm length x 5mm diameter), and central adherent mass apparently including the majority of a stenosed proximal vagina and fibrotic tumour (70 x 65 x 55mm).  The distal vagina is only identified by the presence of anterior and posterior epithelium which are partly separated from the stenosed proximal vagina, with the lateral vaginal walls not identifiable.  The anterior vaginal wall is attached to the main specimen by two small bridges of presumed fibroconnective tissue, approximately 3 x 13mm each, and the urethral segment.  Only a single ureteric stump (presumed right; 5 x 5 mm) is identified on the bladder.  There are defects within the distal rectal wall (20 x 3mm), superior bladder (20 x 3mm), and superior urethral wall (15 x 2mm).  The anal surgical margin is rimmed by skin, up to 18mm in width.  The presumed anterior peritoneal reflection is 105mm from the distal surgical margin.  The proximal portion of bowel (above the anterior peritoneal reflection), as well as the superior aspect of the bladder, are covered by peritoneum.  The vesicouterine and rectouterine pouches are completely obliterated.  The large bowel mucosa is attenuated but is otherwise unremarkable.  The proximal and distal bowel margins, and the circumference of the ureteric margin (including defect), are inked blue.  The left-sided specimen surgical margin is inked blue, and the right-sided specimen surgical margin is inked black.  The posterior vagina is dissected from the main specimen and treated separately, with the area of separation inked red.  The anterior vagina and vulva are removed and treated separately.  The remaining specimen between the anus and proximal bowel segments is sliced transversely from distal to proximal into seven approximately equal slices.  The cut surface reveals a fibrosed and thickened bladder wall (9mm thickness) with denuded epithelium.  Between the bladder and bowel wall, at the apex of the stenosed vagina, is an area of pale grey/pale yellow rubbery tissue 35 x 30 x 60mm.  This area is predominately centred in slices 1 to 4.  In addition, there is a nodule (10 x 7 x 8mm) on the serosa of the bowel in slice 7, ?tumour.
Block 1- LS proximal bowel margin; 2 - LS anal margin; 3 - TS right ureteric margin; 4 - TS distal urethra; 5 - TS mid urethra; 6 - TS proximal urethra; 7-13 - TS anterior vagina (7 - distal; 13 - proximal); 14 - TS left bridge of tissue connecting anterior vagina to main specimen; 15 - TS right bridge of tissue connecting anterior vagina to main specimen; 16-21 - TS posterior vagina (16 - distal; 21 - proximal); 22 and 23 - rubbery tissue (?tumour) slice 1; 24-26 - rubbery tissue (?tumour) slice 2; 27-29 - rubbery tissue (?tumour) slice 3; 30-33 - rubbery tissue (?tumour) slice 4; 34-37 - rubbery tissue (?tumour) slice 5; 38 - nodule proximal bowel wall slice 7.  (TO: JB/ec 28.12.66)

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right pelvic side wall&amp;quot;, consists of an ovoid piece of grey and tan tissue, 35 x 28 x 23mm.  The majority of the surface is ragged; scattered smooth areas (?peritoneum) are identified.  The outer surface is inked blue.  The cut surface is grey and tan.  AE 7 blocks (sectioned transversely).   (TO: JB;JB/vo 28.12.66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr H Martell):
A.  Sections show focal necrosis with surrounding histocytes and fibrous tissue.  The features are most consistent with a foreign body reaction realted to previous surgery.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

B.  Sections show fibrofat with foci of necrosis and surrounding histiocytes, consistent with a foreign body reaction.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

C.  Sections show a well differentiated adenocarcinoma extensively involving vaginal vault and peri-vaginal, peri-urethral and peri-vesical soft tissues. The tumour consists of mucinous glands, often widely spaced with an infiltrative appearance and no associated inflammatory or stromal reaction.  There is multifocal lymphovascular invasion (C17, C18, C31, C33, C37) and also some perineural invasion (C23, C28, C31).
Tumour surrounds the vagina where it is in subepithelial and deeper soft tissues. It is focally present in superficial subepithelial tissue at the distal posterior vaginal margin (block C16).  It also appears to extend to right and left lateral soft tissue margins around the mid vagina (C20, C10, C11) but there were defects in the macroscopic specimen in this region so margins are difficult to assess.  It also appears to extend to the anterior soft tissue margin in the mid vagina (C12).
Tumour surrounds the urethra and appears to be present in peri-urethral soft tissue at the distal margin (C4).
Tumour invades the muscularis propria and focally extends into submucosa of the adherent rectum (C22).  It is also present in detrusor muscle and focally in subepithelial tissue around the bladder neck (C25).
Tumour extends to left and right para-vesical and para-rectal soft tissue margins (C25, C26, C27, C31, C34).
The described nodule on the serosa of the bowel in slice 7 consists of fibrous tissue only.
The bladder and bowel mucosae and walls are unremarkable away from the tumour.

D.  Sections show fibrofat and skeletal muscle.  Some of the muscle is atrophic.  No tumour is seen.  (ec)


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Small bowel nodule:  Foreign body reaction.

B.  Right peritoneal nodule:  Foreign body reaction.

C.  Total exenteration including rectum, vagina and bladder:  Recurrent well differentiated adenocarcinoma of cervix extensively involving vaginal vault, vaginal wall, peri-urethral and peri-vesical soft tissues, see text.

D.  Right pelvic side wall:  No tumour.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (11.1.66):
C.  After discussion and viewing of the sections with Prof H Just, further levels of the most distal block of the posterior vagina/introitus have been cut (block C16).  There is focal tumour present in subepithelial tissue in these further levels, and this tumour persists in the levels until the tissue is extinguished.  It is therefore considered that there is tumour present very focally at the posterior introital margin.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (18.1.66):
C.  Stains for mismatch repair enzymes have been performed as requested.

MLH1:   Preserved nuclear staining.
PMS2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6:   Preserved nuclear staining.

Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI).
