SPR no: 67G799738E
MRN no: 6727997
Site_name: OMEO DISTRICT HEALTH
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report_
CLINICAL:
Para-rectal nodule. Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries. Pouch of douglas. Sigmoid serosal nodule. Omentum.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Para-rectal nodule&amp;quot;, consists of tan tissue, 45 x 45 x up to 8mm. One surface is smooth and shiny with the appearance of cyst wall, and the other surface appears roughened. Serially sectioned perpendicular to the long axis. The cut surface shows the presumed cyst wall is up to 2mm thick. RS embedded in three blocks. Blocks 4 to 12 - remainder of nodule. AE.
B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 103g in total.&amp;#160; The uterus measures 58 x 90 x 40mm and the cervix measures 15 x 13mm. The serosal surface of the uterus is largely smooth and shiny, however there ris a nodule protruding from the posterior fundus, 22mm in maximum dimension. The cervix appears unremarkable. The right fallopian tube and ovary are adherent to the uterus, however, the right fallopian tube is approximately 50mm in length and 5mm in maximum diameter and the right ovary is approximately 20 x 10 x up to 10mm.  The left fallopian tube is 60mm in length and 4mm in maximum diameter.&amp;#160; The left ovary measures 20 x 10 x 8mm. On sectioning, the endometrial aspect has a cystic appearance, 9mm in maximum thickness. The myometrium ranges from 8 to 36mm and shows a circumscribed yellow nodule with a somewhat lobulated cut surface, 25 x 20 x~20mm. There is also a fibroid, 33mm in maximum diameter. The previously described fundal nodule corresponds to a fibroid. Blocks: 1 to 4 - anterior sagittal section from uterus embedded from fundus to cervix; 5 to 8 - posterior sagittal section of uterus embedded from fundus to cervix; 9 &amp;amp; 10 - RS yellow nodule; 11 to 14 - serial sections right fallopian tube; 15 to 22 - serial sections right ovary; 23 to 25 - serial sections left ovary; 26 to 30 - serial sections left fallopian tube; 31 - nodular structures and ?endometrium; 32 - subserosal pedunculated calcified fibroid with adjacent intra mural fibroid; 33 to 36 - composite sections uterus with endometrial nodule; 37 to 41 - composite sections uterus.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Pouch of Douglas&amp;quot;, consists of tan tissue, 20 x 8 x 5mm. Serially sectioned and AE in block C.
D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Sigmoid serosal nodule&amp;quot;, consists of four tan biopsies, 5 to 7mm. AE in block D.
E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of fatty tissue, 160 x 190 x 10mm. Multifocal nodules up to 4mm are identified. RS embedded in blocks E1 to E3.    (TO:LR/ta/ta 4/6/71)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr R Rehder):
A. The specimen is entirely embedded and examined. Sections show dense fibrous tissue, a small amount of fibroadipose connective tissue and a small focus of ovarian tissue. In areas the fibrous tissue is surfaced mesothelium and there is patchy surface mesothelial surface reaction, subserosal fibrosis associated and subacute haemorrhage in the form of hemosiderin laden macrophages. A small focus of subserosal tumour is present (A7, A8). The tumour is composed of epitheloid cells with moderately pleomorphic round to oval nuclei, mostly conspicuous nucleoli and a small to moderate amount of eosinophilic cytoplasm. The tumour cells are arranged in a loosely cohesive aggregates associated with an infiltrative small lymphocytes. Gland formation and slit- like architecture is not seen. The morphological appearance is similar to those seen in the remaining specimens.

B. Sections of uterus show a focus of subserosal high grade serous carcinoma involving the subserosa of the anterior uterine body (B1). The morphology as described previously. The myometrium shows numerous fibroids including subserosal and calcified fibroids.
There is a benign endometrial polyp and the endometrium is otherwise inactive.

The ectocervix is unremarkable and uninvolved. The endocervix shows conspicuous Nabothian cysts.

The fallopian tubes are serially sectioned and entirely embedded and examined.
The ovaries are entirely embedded and examined. High grade serous carcinoma  multifocally involves the right ovarian serosa and subserosa as well as right paraovarian soft tissues (B16 to B22).  High grade serous carcinoma  also involves the serosa and subserosa of the left ovary (B23 to B25), the left fallopian tube and right fallopian tube  (eg B26, B30, B11 to B14). No evidence of serous intraepithelial carcinoma in situ (STIC) is seen. There is a probable small focus of endometriosis in the right ovary (B18).

Immunohistochemistry:
In the presence of positive and adequate controls the tumour cells stain as follows:
Positive: CK7, PAX 8, WT1, P53 (mutation pattern with diffuse strong expression), Ber-EP4, P16 (diffuse), ER near diffuse strong, HBME-1 (patchy).
Negative: Calretinin, CK5/6, CK20, SATB2, CDX2.

The immunoprofile is consistent with high grade serous carcinoma.

C. The specimen is entirely embedded and examined. Sections show serosal lined fibrous tissue and fibromuscular tissue. There are patchy subserosal perivascular aggregates, however, no diagnostic tumour is seen. There is no significant fibrosis or subacute haemorrhage.

D. The sections show serosal lined fibrous tissue or fibromuscular tissue. There is extensive involvement by high grade serous carcinoma with morphology as previously described.

E. Representative sections show high grade serous carcinoma present as both subsersoal discrete nodules and infiltrating fat with an associated desmoplastic reaction. The tumour cells are  arranged in loosely cohesive aggregates or small solid nests with an associated lymphoid infiltrate.

COMMENT:
A to E. The morphology and immunoprofile are those of residual high serous carcinoma. Residual carcinoma focally involves the pararectal tissue and uterine subserosa with more extensive involvement of the serosa and subserosa of the fallopian tubes bilaterally (R &amp;gt; L) and  ovaries bilaterally (R  &amp;gt; L). There is also nodular tumour within the omentum. Serous intraepithelial tubular carcinoma in situ (STIC) of the fallopian tubes is not identified and the distribution of disease in the ovaries is predominately serosal and subserosal.

Chemotherapy Response Score (CRS)
Score 2:  Partial tumour response (regression associated fibro-inflammatory changes with readily identifiable viable tumour).


DIAGNOSIS:
A. To E. Pararectal nodule, uterus cervix bilateral fallopian tubes and bilateral ovaries: pouch of douglas, sigmoid serosal nodule, and omentum:
-  Residual high grade serous carcinoma involving pararectal tissue, uterine subserosa, bilateral fallopian tube serosa/subserosa, bilateral ovaries serosa/subserosa and omentum
-  Partial chemotherapy response (grade 2)
-  Pouch of Douglas uninvolved
-  Benign endometrial polyp, inactive endometrium, multiple fibroids, focal probable endometrosis right ovary.
Selected slides shown to Dr R Barcroft who concurs.
