SPR no: 59O710386M
MRN no: 59571038
Site_name: NARRANDERA HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma.  Metal biliary stent.  Neoadjuvant FOLFIRINOX chemo (5 cycles).  SMV involved at root of mesentery.  Whipples procedure with portal vein resection.  1 x prolene suture loosely opposing SMV/PV.  2 x prolene suture SMA margin.  3 x prolene suture uncinate process.


MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen unlabelled as to site or nature, consists of pancreatic duodenectomy with attached gallbladder and orientating sutures as described.  The duodenum has attached pyloric sphincter with a 10mm length of stomach with a width of 40mm.  The duodenum is 185mm in length with a diameter variable between 20 and 55mm.  55mm from the pyloric margin is a metal stent emerging from the ampulla of vater.  The specimen was received closed and in formalin. The mucosal surface appears unremarkable except for an area of ulceration opposite the site of stent exit at the ampulla of this area.  The ulceration measures 3 x 3mm with a depth of 2mm.  The remaining mucosa appears unremarkable.  Gallbladder is attached and measures 80 x 25 x 20mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The pancreas measures 55mm (superior to inferior) x 35mm (medial to lateral) x 15mm (anterior to posterior).  The portal vein, SMA and uncinate sutures are located.  Inking of specimen is as follows; blue - neck of pancreas, green - PV/SMV margin, black - SMA, blue - uncinate, red - anterior surface, yellow - posterior surface.  The stent present within the ampulla is adherent to surrounding tissue and infiltrated by tan fragile tumour and required dissection out.  The gallbladder wall thickness is up to 1mm with the mucosal surface green and velvety.  No polyps or stones are seen within the lumen.
Blocks: 1 - LS pyloric margin; 2 - LS distal duodenal margin LS; 3 &amp;amp; 4 - neck of pancreas LS; 5 - cystic duct margin; 6 to 12 - pancreas serially sliced from superior to inferior (block 6 - anterior; 7 - posterior (paired blocks)); 13 - TS gallbladder neck; 14 - mid section TS gallbladder; 15 - LS fundus gallbladder; 15 - multiple lymph nodes; 16 - multiple lymph nodes; 17 - single ?lymph node; 18 - multiple ?lymph nodes from fat surrounding pancreas.
(TO: MS; MS/ta 3/8/67)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr. N Nares):

SUMMARY PANCREATIC TUMOUR
Size of tumour: 33mm (microscopic)

Histological tumour type
Ductal adenocarcinoma

Histological grade
Moderately to poorly differentiated
Site of tumour
Head of pancreas
Extent of tumour invasion
Wall of portal/superior mesenteric vein (9)
Duodenal wall (10)
Peripancreatic soft tissues (e.g. 10)

Lymphovascular invasion:  Present (8)
Type of vessel: Small vessel

Perineural invasion: Present, within pancreas (8)

Perineural invasion of the superior mesenteric artery (uncinate) margin neural plexus
Not identified (tumour is seen between nerve bundles without perineural involvement)
Preinvasive lesion
Present

Margins:
Invasive tumour:
Pancreatic neck:  &amp;gt; 10mm
Common bile duct:  &amp;gt; 10mm
Portal vein/superior mesenteric vein (excised vessel wall): &amp;lt; 0.1mm (10)
Portal vein/superior mesenteric vein (soft tissue): 0.8mm (9)
Superior mesenteric artery: 0.4mm (9)
Periuncinate soft tissue: 0.2mm (11)
Proximal (stomach):  &amp;gt; 50mm
Distal (duodenal):  &amp;gt;50mm

Carcinoma in situ/PanIN-3 at margin:  &amp;gt; 10mm

Surfaces:
Anterior: &amp;lt; 0.1mm (9)
Posterior:  1.5mm (7)

Lymph nodes:
Number found: 27
Number involved: 4

Other pathologies:
- Low grade dysplasia (PanIN 2) is seen in the pancreas.
- Chronic pancreatitis is seen.

Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Grade 3 (poor response) - extensive residual cancer
PATHOLOGICAL STAGING (AJCC 7th Ed.)
Primary tumour category (pT)
T3 Tumour extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement of the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery
Regional lymph node category (pN)
N1 Regional lymph node metastasis

Distant metstasis category (pM)
MX Not assessable by histology

DIAGNOSIS
Whipple resection post treatment:
- 33mm moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma
- Metastatic carcinoma present in 4 out of 27 lymph nodes
