Episode No:  13E710301T
1317103.ACT

MEINBERG, CHERLYN Terry 
Lab No:  13E71030,13E71030
Gladville
NEW NORFOLKWestern Australia  3779
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  14/10/2002
Sex:  F
Collected: 6/8/2062 at:
Location:  PARKES 8 - ORBOST REGIONAL HEALTH
DR Madge DORIE Swearinger
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Endometroid adenocarcinoma on cervical (??)biopsy.  Depression, chronic back pain, smoker.   
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left external iliac lymph node" received fresh for frozen section consists of a lymph node 25 x 10 x 10mm.  The cut surface is pink/tan and smooth.  The specimen is bisected and AE for frozen section. 
Blocks: 1 & 2 - frozen section.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Metastatic carcinoma.
Results to Dr Haley THOMPKINS by Dr D Liddell, Dr D Lundemo and Dr D Fagley at 3.30pm on 4/6/12.
B.Specimen labelled "Uterus tubes and ovaries" consists of a uterus with attached cervix and bilateral tubes and ovaries, weighing in total 106g.  The uterus measures 90 x 40 x 30mm and has a shiny and smooth serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 40 x 40mm.  The ectocervical mucosa is haemorrhagic and shows some ulceration.  On sectioning the endometrial cavity is totally replacedby an exophytic, haemorrhagic and fungating tumour which extends into the endocervix.  The tumour extends to a point 15mm from the ectocervical margin.  The endometrium has a maximum thickness of 7mm.  The myometrium has a maximum thickness of 5mm.  The tumour abuts the serosal surface of the uterus in the anterior lower segment.  The surgical margin is inked blue.  The right fallopian tube measures 50mm in length and 5mm in maximum diameter and is unremarkable.  The right ovary measures 25 x 10 x 10mmand the cut surface is unremarkable.  The left fallopian tube measures 60 x 5 x 5mm and is unremarkable.  The left ovary measures 390 x 20 x 10mm and the cut surface is unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 to 5 - one full longitudinal section of anteriorbody and cervix; 6 & 7 - two representative sections of the lower segment with tumour; 8 - one representative section endomyometrium with fibroid; 9 to 12 - one full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix; 13 - one representative section of posterior cervix with tumour; 14 - one representative section of posterior lower segment with tumour; 15 - two LS right fimbria; 16 - one TS right fallopian tube and one representative section of the right ovary; 17 - left fimbria two LS; 18 - one TS left fallopian tube one representative section of the left ovary; 19 - right parametrial tissue; 20 - left parametrial tissue; 21 - tumour for tissue banking. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Left vaginal margin" consists of a fragment of tissue measuring 50 x 5 x 5mm covered by a mucosal surface.  The surgical margin is inked blue and the specimen is AE in 6 blocks.
D.  Specimen labelled "Left common iliac lymph node" consists of twopieces of fat tissue measuring 25 and 15mm in maximum diameter, with two lymph nodes.  AE 1 block.
E.  Specimen labelled "Right external iliac lymph node" consists of a piece of fatty tissue 20 x 10 x 2mm.  No nodes are identified macroscopically.   AE 1 block.
  
F.  Specimen labelled "Right obturator lymph node" consists of a lymph node measuring 50 x 10 x 10mm.  The specimenis bisected and AE 2 blocks.  
(CW/ta 7/8/62) 
  
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr D Shigemitsu):
A.  Sections show a lymph node which has reactive changes but also shows foci of involvement of sinuses in the subcapsular region and within the node by metastatic adenocarcinoma.
B.  Sections show a grade 2 endometroid adenocarcinoma of endometrium.  The tumour is architectural grade 1 but a significant proportion has high grade nuclear features with large, vesicular nuclei and prominent nucleoli, so overall it is considered to be grade 2.  There is deep myometrium invasion and also invasion of the stroma of the endocervix and ectocervix.  There is multifocal lymphovascular invasion in the myometrium and in the cervix.  The maximum depth of tumour invasion in the anterior lower segment is 10mm out of a total myometrial thickness of 10.5mm.  No tumour is seen on the serosal surface.  In the cervix the maximum depth of cervical stroma invasion is 12mm out of a total thickness of 15mm (block B13).  The tumour is 9mm from the ectocervical excision margin at the closest point (block B1).  One lymph node is identified in the right parametrium and this is partially involved by metastatic adenocarcinoma.
The myometrium also has a leiomyoma.  There is focal endometriosis near the serosal surface of the posterior cervix.There is focal endometriosis at the fimbrial end of the right fallopian tube.  Sections of the left fallopian tube show features of chronic salpingitis and salpingitis isthmicanodosa.  The fallopian tubes are otherwise unremarkable.  Sectionsof the ovaries show no significant abnormality.  
   
C.  Sections show stratified squamous epithelium with underlying tissue.  There is no dysplasia or evidence of malignancy.    
D.  Sections show two lymph nodes.  No tumour is seen. 
E.  Sections show one lymph node.  No tumour is seen.
F.  Sections show one lymph node.  No tumour is seen.  


DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Left external iliac lymph node:  Foci of involvement by metastatic adenocarcinoma (/1).
B.  Uterus tubes and ovaries:  Grade 2 endometroid adenocarcinoma of endometriumshowing deep myometrial invasion and cervical stromal invasion.  Prominent lymphovascular invasion.  Metastasis in one right parametrial lymph node.  Stage 3C. 
C.  Left vaginal margin:  No abnormality seen.
D.  Left common iliac lymph nodes:  No tumour (0/2).
E.  Right external iliac lymph node:  No tumour (0/1). 
F.  Right obturator lymph node:  No tumour (0/1).  
       
 

