Episode No:  19A888531S
1908885.IDS

DECLET, Lavenia 
Lab No:  19A88853
Glos
STANTHORPE  South Australia  2733
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B: 11/3/2041
Sex:  F
Collected: 01/05/2013 at 16:43
Location:  SOUTH SURGICAL ASSESSMENT UNIT-BONALBO HOSPITAL
DR GARRETT ZACHARIAH SWARTLEY
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (10.7.63):


CLINICAL:
Skin lesion right medial lower leg.  Nil medical.  Recent preop chemo radiotherapy ceased May 2063.  Skin lesion medial right lower leg histopath.
Additional clinical history.   Large sarcoma (biphasic synovial sarcoma).  Margins macroscopically clear.  Histo R thigh mass.  Clarified margins with Dr TEMPEST Brooksher.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Fresh sarcoma right thigh" consists of an orientated mass including vastus muscles with a suture at one end (superior) measuring 140mmsuperior to inferior, 110mm medial to lateral and 74mm superficial to deep and weighing 318.5g.  The bone margin is inked black, vessel margin red, the rest of posterior green, anterior blue, inferior purple and superior orange.  Thereis an encapsulated bare area on the posterior margin near the bone margin measuring 55 x 25mm which is covered by strips of retracted muscle (due to fixation, Dr Mitchell clarified was covered with 2cm muscle layer prior to excision).  
The tumour measures 110mm superior to inferior, 51mm anterior to posterior and 65mm medial to lateral. The cut surface shows a solid and cystic tumour comprised of pale tan lobulated areas with areas of haemorrhage.  The cystic spacesrange from 4mm to 54mm in maximum dimension.  The cystic areas have a smooth inner lining.  The medial part of the tumour, in particular, has multiple large cysts, together measuring 30 x 54 x 30mm, and these contain blood stained fluid.  The margins are as follows:  cystic tumour abuts the superior and medial margins; cystic tumour 5mm from the posterior margin; solid tumour 12mm from the anterior margin, 30mm from the inferior margin, and 42mm from the lateral margin.Representative in 25 blocks.  See attached diagram.
Blocks:  1 to 17 - longitudinal full face through tumour; 18 - superior closest margin; 19 to 24 - medial parasagittal full face; 25 - lateral margin.  (Block 9 for tumour bank)
B.  Specimen labelled "Lesion right leg" consistsof an unoriented ellipse of skin measuring 27 x 10 x 3mm.  There is a nodular pale lesion on the surface of the skin measuring 5 x 5mm.  Representative sections in 2 blocks.
Blocks:  1- TS through lesion; 2 - LS ends.
(TO:  AT; JZ/bl 4/7/63)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr D Grenke):
A.  Sections show a biphasic synovial sarcoma which is partly cystic and partly solid.  Most of the solid component has an appearance similar to the previous core biopsy (19A88853).  This comprises mainly spindle cells in short irregularfascicles and also admixed more epithelioid cells forming palisades and occasional poorly formed gland-like structures. The tumour cells have elongated and oval nuclei with fine chromatin, generally small nucleoli and scanty, poorly defined eosinophilic cytoplasm.  There is also a minor component, around 20% of the tumour sampled, where there is very obvious formation of well formed glands lined by columnar cells, with intervening spindle cell tumour.  The tumour cysts are generally surrounded by a thin rim of solid tumour and are lined by spindled tumour cells.  There are scattered foci of calcification within the tumour.  Mitoses number up toaround 8 per 10 high power fields.  No necrosis is seen.  No lymphovascular or perineural invasion is identified.  There is some patchy collagenous and myxoid fibrosis adjacent to the tumour, particularly inferiorly, and this presumably represents tumour which has now regressed due to chemotherapy.  However this fibrosis is not particularly prominent and all the tumour identified macroscopically appears to be viable histologically.  
No tumour is identified at excision margins.  Tumour is 0.5mm from the superior margin, 1mm from the posterior margin, 3mm from the medial margin, greater than 10mm from anterior margin, 20mm from the lateral margin and well away from the inferior margin.  
Immunostains:
Cytokeratin AE1/3:   Patchy positive staining.  Strongly positive in well formed glandular component.
Bcl-2:   Strongly positive.
Mic-2 (CD 99):   Generally negative.
Desmin:   Negative.
Smooth muscle actin:   Negative.
Ki-67:   Proliferation index estimated 25%.
The tumour is FNCLCC grade 2 (tumour differentiation score 3, mitosis score 1, necrosis score 0).    
B.  Sections show skin and subcutis.  Within the dermis there is a dermatofibroma.  There is no evidence of malignancy.  Excision appears complete.  (ec) 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.   Right thigh mass:  Biphasic synovial sarcoma. 
B.   Right leg:  Dermatofibroma. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (10.7.63):
A.  The apparently close superior excision margin was discussed with Dr D Sharpnack.
After viewing a photo of the longitudinal cut surface of the specimen it was realised that muscle anterior and posterior to the tumour had originally been connected superiorly, and that after excision and specimen fixation these muscles had separated and retracted downwards.  The true superior excision margin is therefore considered to be well clear.
 

