Episode No:  77W819589A
7788195.XYA

Germond, DION Ezra 
Lab No:  77W81958
Bronstein
KINGAROY  QLD  1295
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/7/2039
Sex:  M
Collected: 15/8/2063 at :
Location:  Envoi-BALLARAT HEALTH SERVICES (BASE HOSPITAL)
DR Vance Boleslaws Swatski
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Metastatic sarcoma in L groin.  Primary in L buttock.  Sacral subcutaneous sarcoma.  Main specimen short stitch superior, long stitch anal sphincter, new deep margin including gluteus maximus at new margin.  New coccygeal margin.  Mild asthma.  Left femoral groin dissection for 10cm lymph node (from sacral sarcoma).  Further lymph node from anterior aspect of ilio tibial band.  Left internal iliac and pelvic node.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left lateral groin mass (long lateral, short superior)" consists of an orientated wide local excision with two sutures in situ as designated measuring 45mm (medial to lateral) x 75mm (inferior to superior) x 30mm (anterior to posterior).  The posterior margin is inked black, the anterior margin blue and the lateral margin red.  The specimen is serially sectioned in the transverse pole into eleven slices from slice one superior, to slice eleven inferior.  In slices one to ten there is a well circumscribed fleshy and haemorrhagic lesion measuring 33mm (medial to lateral) x 70mm (superior to inferior) x 28mm (anterior to posterior).  The distance from margins is as follows:  The tumour appears to abut the medial, posterior and lateral margins and is 2mm from the anterior margin, 20mm from the inferior margin and appears to abut the superior margin.  The tumour appears to have a capsule surrounding it.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - representative slice one (superior margin); 3 & 4 - representative slice two; 5 & 6 - representative slice three; 7 & 8 - representative slice five; 9 & 10 - representative slice six; 12 & 13 - representative slice seven; 14 - representative slice eleven.  Please refer to attached diagram.  
 
 B.  Specimen labelled "Left groin, stitch superior" consists ofan orientated ellipse of skin measuring 230 x 120mm to a depth of 110mm with a suture attached to one pole marking superior.  The 3 o'clock margin is inked blue and the 9 o'clock margin black.  The cut surface reveals a fleshy cream necrotic lesion which is well circumscribed and ? encapsulated measuring 85mm (medial to lateral) x 150mm (inferior to superior) x 90mm (superficial to deep) .  The lesion appears to come close to the 9 o'clock, deep and 3 o'clock margins and is well clear of both the inferior and superior margins.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - representative inferior margin; 3 & 4 - representative superior margin; 5 & 6 - representative tumour deepmargin; 7 & 8 - representative tumour at 3 o'clock margin; 9 & 10 -  representative at 9 o'clock margin; 11 - tumour to skin; 12 - further representative tumour; 13 - reserve block. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Short superior, long perianal margin, double stitch deep margin" consists of an unorientated excision of skin measuring 250 x 160mm to a depth of 65mm with three sutures in situ as designated the superior margin is designated 12 o'clock.   The deep margin is inked black, the 3 o'clock (presumed medial/posterior) is inked blue and the 9 o'clock (presumed lateral/anterior) is inked green.  A well circumscribed fleshy haemorrhagic and necrotic tumour is identified measuring 80mm (medial to lateral) x 190mm (inferior to superior) x 60mm (superficial to deep).  On the skin surface an area of ulceration is identified measuring 10 x 6mm.  The distance from margins is as follows:  The tumour appears to come close to the deep margin, 30mm from the 3 o'clock margin, 28mm from the 9 o'clock margin and well clear of the inferior and superior margins.  
Blocks: 1 - superior margin; 2 - skin to tumour at point of ulceration; 3 - anal sphincter margin AE; 4 & 5  - further inferior margin; 6 & 7 - tumour to deep margin; 8 & 9- tumour to 3 o'clock margin; 10 - 9 o'clock margin; 11 & 12 - further representative tumour.  
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Stitch at the new deep margin" consists of a piece of tan tissue with a suture attached to one side measuring 65 x 35mm to a depth of 18mm.  The side with the suture attached is inked black and the opposite side is inked blue.  The cut surface reveals skeletal muscle.  No definite tumour is seen.  Representative sections 6 blocks.  (Approximately 60% of the specimen embedded).
 
E.  Specimen labelled "Coccygeal margin" consists of a piece of irregular tan tissue with a suture attached to one side measuring 18 x 18mm to a depth of 10mm.  The side with the suture attached is inked black, the other side inked blue.  Serially sectioned and AE 2 blocks.  
 
F.  Specimen labelled "External iliac node" consists of fragments of tan fatty tissue from 5 - 30mm.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified from 5 to 20mm.  
Blocks: 1 - lymph nodes; 2 - one lymph node bisected; 3 - one lymph node bisected. 
    
G.  Specimen labelled "Left pelvic node" consists of a piece of fatty tissue measuring 35mm in maximum dimension.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified from 4 to 22mm.  AE 2 blocks.   (JA/ta 13/8/63) 
  
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr O Didomenico):
A.   Sections show an epithelioid tumour which has a papillary and myxoid appearance.  The tumour has a pseudocapsule with focal invasion with outlying nodules and foci of possible vascular invasion. There are areas of necrosis present. 
No nodal tissue is identified. 
The excision margins appear clear of tumour (superior 1mm, lateral 1mm, posterior 1mm, medial 0.5-1mm, anterior 2mm, inferior well clear).  
B.  Sections show a large circumscribed tumour deposit located within the subcutis with normal overlying skin. The excision margins appear clear of the lesion (deep 1.5mm, lateral 1.5mm, medial 2.5mm, inferior and superior well clear). 
Two (2) uninvolved lymph nodes are identified, one of which was compressed at the periphery of the tumour.
C.  The main specimen shows a large tumour mass which has the same appearance as that seen in specimen A and B.  The tumour is well circumscribed with a pseudocapsule with extensive areas of necrosis.  The excision margins appear clear of the lesion with superior and inferior margins (analsphincter margin) well clear. The deep margin is 4mm clear, medial margin 10mm clear and the lateral/anterior margin is well clear. 
D.  Sections show skeletal muscle plus a small amount of adipose and fibrous tissue. There is no tumour present. 
E.  Sections show fibrofatty tissue only. There is no tumour present. 
F.  The seven (7) lymph nodes identified are negative for tumour. 
G.The six (6) lymph nodes identified are negative for tumour.  

REFERRAL:  A, B, C -  PROFESSOR Buddy, Peter Mac, CASINO REPORTS:
"Many thanks for asking me to look at this young man's masses in the buttock/groin region.  I am returning your original stained slides and the blocks herein. 
As you rightly say, both lesions have similar morphologic features, being characterised by an acinar-type or papillary proliferation of plump epithelioid cells with palely eosinophilic or clear cytoplasm and relatively uniform and only mildly atypical vesicular nuclei.  While some areasof the lesion do indeed bear an architectural resemblance to myxopapillary ependymoma, the bulk of the lesion has much more epithelioid morphology than one would expect in that context.  Immunostains in our hands show strong positivity not only for S100 protein but also for GFAP along with scattered cells positive EMA and rare cells positive for keratin CAM 5.2, while stains for pan keratin, p63, TFE-2 and Olig 2 are negative.  Staining for INI-1 is positive, ie. normal/retained.  I believe that the cytoarchitectural features and immunophenotype would fit best with myoepithelial carcinoma, low grade. The presence of two distinct masses is very worrisome and clearly raises the possibility of this representing metastasis from elsewhere, unless perhaps one of these lesions represents a locoregional metastasis from the other.  Only ongoing clinical correlation will help to address this question.  I would be very interested to hear of future developments in this unusual case".  
 
CYTOGENETICSREPORT:  (9.5.63)
Reported by O Edelmann.    Validated by Dr O Outten.
"Analysis:
Karyotpye:
No mitoses.
Comment:
No metaphases were obtained from 4 cultures.  Please advise laboratory if FISH would be useful in this case". 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left lateral groin mass:
-Favour myoepithelial carcinoma, low grade - see referral.
-    Size 33 x 70 x 28mm, clear margins - see above.  
-    No lymph nodes identified.
B.  Left groin:
-    Favour myoepithelial carcinoma, low grade. 
-    Size 85 x 150 x 90mm, clear margins - see above.
-    Two (2) uninvolved lymph nodes.
C, D.  Tumour left buttock plus new deep margin:
-     Favour myoepithelial carcinoma, low grade.
-     Size 80 x 190 x 60mm, clear margins - see above.
E.   Coccygeal margin:
-     No tumour. 
F.   External iliac nodes:  
-     Lymph nodes (x7) negative for tumour.
G.Left pelvic nodes:
-     Lymph  nodes (x6) negative for tumour. 
  

