Episode No:  40B4707569
400470.UOR

Levien, Tracy
Lab No:  40B47075
Pine Croft
WOOLGOOLGAWestern Australia  1240
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  28/10/1994
Sex:  M
Collected: 18/3/2064 at :
Location:  DAY SURGERY-COLLIE DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR Ezra Marlin HALLEE
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Recurrent sarcoma L groin adjacent to testis + cord.  Previous L inguinal hernia repair x2.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Left groin mass medial stitch 9 o'clock, long stitch 3 o'clock, short stitch superior" consists of a large tumorous mass with  three sutures for orientation and long suture marking the 9 o'clock margin.  The medium suture marking the 3 o'clock margin and a short suture marking the superior margin.  The specimen measures 60mm 3 to 9 o'clock, 110mm superficial to deep and 80mm superior to inferior.  Specimen is inked:blue the 3 o'clock margin, black the 9 o'clock margin and red the superior margin.  The specimen is serially sectioned from superficial to deep margin into ten slices.  Slice one superficial margin.  Slice ten deep margin. 
On sectioning the cut surface has  a variegated appearance with fatty tissue looking areas  and areas with more solid yellow/pink  appearance and  haemorrhage.  In slices six, seven and eight the tumour has a more lobulated appearance with thick fibrous bands.  Macroscopically, the tumour abuts the superior margin (in slice number six) and the 9 o'clock margin (slice seven).  Areas of bonyconsistency are also identified.  
Representative sections are taken according to the attached diagram.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - two sections of superficial margin; 3 to 7 - full face of slice number three; 8 to 12 - slice number five; 13 to 15 - representative sections slice six; 16 to 22 - slice eight; 23 to 25 - two representative sections of slice number 10 (deep margin).  
Note:  Macro specimen was photographed and seen by Dr ALPHONSO Ubaldo
(TO: HN; TY/rt 19.3.64)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr G Bedney):
Sections of the tumour show similar appearances to that seen inthe previously excised left colon tumour (24O65140). It has a lobulated contour and is composed of pleomorphic malignant spindled, stellate and multinucleated cells. In most areas, these malignant cells appear to be haphazardly arrangedwhile whorled structures are seen in other areas. Scattered foci of osteosarcomatous component are present (Block 17). The surrounding fatty tissue show adipocytic cells with mild size variation in which atypical hyperchromatic cells are seen in the stroma of their fibrocollagenous septae. The aggregate of features is consistent with that of a malignant sarcoma with a dedifferentiated liposarcoma arising from a well differentiated sclerosing type liposarcoma being favoured. 
The dedifferentiated component is present at the inferior margin (Block 12) and appears clear of all the other margins.
The well-differentiated component is present at the superficial (Block 2), 3 o'clock (Block 6)and superior (Blocks 8 and 14) margins.
MDM2 amplification study may be helpful.
DIAGNOSIS:
Left groinmass
- MALIGNANT SARCOMA FAVOURS DEDIFFERENTIATED LIPOSARCOMA ARISING FROM A WELL DIFFERENTIATED LIPOSARCOMA (SEE BODY OF TEXT REGARDING MARGINS)
Representative slides shown to Dr G Schlinker.


