
Episode No:  20C640140M
2006401.MBM

ASMAN, TARKA SHAWN 
Lab No:  20C64014
Ravenhill
GLADSTONE  Queensland  2793
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  20/2/1999
Sex:  M
Collected: Unknown at :
Location:  MEDIC/SURGERYWARD-GOULBURN VALLEY HEALTH - SHEPPARTON CAMPUS
DR Malcolm JEROLD Gochnour
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
History of extraosseous osteosarcoma arising from distal pancreas with recurrence at left retroperitoneum and left pleural cavity.  For resection of retroperitoneal mass, left nephrectomy and mass in left pleural cavity and diaphragm.  AF, cardiomyopathy, LVEF 25%, past Rt CVA. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Patient details checked by JM
A.  Specimen labelled "Pleural diaphragmatic mass", consists of a nodular mass 	
100 x 70 x 40mm. The external surface is smooth and shiny with a ragged area at one pole.  The cut surface is solid and firm with a fibrotic appearance.  
Block 1-5 - representative sections from the lesion; 6 - tumour selected for tissue bank.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Splenic flexure", consists of a looped piece of colon 270 x 20 x 20mm. The external surface appears covered bymultiple adhesions and there is a dilated area up to 50mm in maximum diameter. The mucosal surface at the level of the dilation appears ischaemic. The rest of the mucosal surface is congested and oedematous.  A nodule is also received, 40 x 25 x 20mm. The external surface is dusky.  On sectioning it has a glistening nodular appearance.  
Blocks 1-3 - representative sections from the nodule; 4 & 5- proximal and distal colonic margins; 6 & 7 - representative sections from the dilated and ischaemic colon; 8 - other areas; 9-11 - several ? lymph nodes from the pericolic fat. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Retroperitoneal tumour plus left kidney", consists of a large nodular tumour with a piece of dark brown tissue, consistent with atrophic kidney, at one pole.  The tumour is 300 x 150 x 100mm and weighs 1800g.  The external surface is smooth and shiny and is partly covered by adipose tissue.  The external surface appears complete.  The cut surface is fleshy and multinodular with glistening areas and cystic areas filled with mucoid fluid.  
Blocks 1-15 - 15 representative sections from the tumour; 16 & 17- representative sections of kidney.  (KZ/ec 30.11.62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr D Balcomb)
A.  Sections show a spindle cell tumour of low to moderate cellularity, with some skeletal muscle and a small amount of fat at one edge.  The tumour cells have elongated and plump oval nuclei.  Some of the plump cells are binucleate or multinucleate and have a moderate amount of amphophilic cytoplasm, and these cells often have a single prominent nucleolus.  The cells are haphazardly dispersed in short fascicles within a fibrous stroma.  Mitoses are infrequent and no necrosis is seen.  The tumour abuts the described smooth surface and also extends virtually to the described roughened area at one pole of the specimen (block A5).  In view of the appearances seen in the other specimens (specimens B and C) the features are mostconsistent with a de-differentiated liposarcoma.  
B.Sections of the described nodule show that this consists of old, necrotic fat, with surrounding fibrous tissue. There are foci of calcification within the necrotic fat.  
Sections of the bowel segment show large intestinal wall.  There is recentischaemic damage to the mucosa.  The wall is unremarkable but, in sections from the described dilated segment, there is atypical spindle cell tumour, of low cellularity, involving subserosal tissue.  No definite tumour is seen in the sections of bowel from the proximal and distal excisionmargins.  
Sections from the pericolic fat show mature appearing fat with scattered atypical cells with hyperchromatic nuclei, both within the fat and in septae between fat lobules (blocks B10, B11).  The features are most in keeping with a well differentiated, lipoma-like liposarcoma.  The identification of this component would mean, therefore, that the high grade sarcoma identified in the specimens A and C, and the osteosarcoma identified in the previous resection from 2059, are most consistent with components of a de-differentiated liposarcoma.  
The tumourseen in the subserosal tissue of the colon is most consistent with sclerosing variant of well differentiated liposarcoma.  
C.  Sections show tumour with a variable appearance.  The majority has features of a high grade sarcoma.  This mainly consists of highly atypical, pleomorphic cells, sometimes with prominent eosinophilic cytoplasm, within a loose and myxoid stroma.  With immunostains the atypical cells are strongly vimentin and desmin positive and also show some patchy smooth muscle actin and myogenin positivity.  Stains for CD34 and S100 are negative.  The proliferation index with a Ki-67 stain in the most atypical area is around 50%.  The appearances are of a de-differentiated liposarcoma showing rhabdomyosarcomatous differentiation.  Much of the tumour has a lobulated outline but de-differentiated liposarcoma is seen extending to at least one inked excision margin (block C15).    
A minor component of well differentiated lipoma-like liposarcoma is also identified (blocks C11, C14).  This also appears to extend to at least one excision margin (block C14).  Some tumour comprising hyalinised tissue of low cellularity, with scattered large atypical cells, consistent with sclerosing variant of well differentiated liposarcoma, is also noted (eg. Block C1, C9, C10).        
Sectionsof the attached kidney show end stage stages with marked atrophy, hyalinisation of most glomeruli, severe tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis.  There is atypical spindle cell tumour, consistent with de-differentiated liposarcoma, extending to the renal capsule but no definite invasion of the kidney is seen. 
Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr D Kun. 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.   Pleural diaphragmatic mass:  De-differentiated liposarcoma.  
B.   Splenic flexure:  Well differentiated, lipoma-like liposarcoma in pericolic fat, and sclerosing variant of well differentiated liposarcoma in subserosal tissue of colon.
C.  Retroperitoneal tumour and left kidney:  
1.  High grade sarcoma with features of rhabdomyosarcoma, most consistent with
     rhabdomyosarcomatous differentiation in de-differentiated liposarcoma.  Minor 
     components of well differentiated lipoma-like and sclerosing liposarcoma. 
 
2.  End stage kidney.  
 
 

