Episode No:  42U933099F
4279330.ZXF

RONAN, Davis 
Lab No:  42U93309
Fawn Wood
MOE  TAS  2197
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  11/1/1986
Sex:  M
Collected: 10/05/2013 at 18:46
Location:  NSW Health-MILTON ULLADULLA HOSPITAL
DR Malcolm BASIL Strausner
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (18.7.63):


CLINICAL:
Metastatic colorectal cancer.  Ascending colon cancer.  HTN.  Depression.  High chol.  Colorectal mets. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Liver resection segment 3" consists of asegment of liver 80 x 75 x 40mm with a small amount of fatty tissue attached to the capsular surface.  The cut surface reveals unremarkable liver tissue.  No tumour deposits are identified.  
Blocks:  1- tissue at surgical resection margin; 2 - further section of liver.
B.  Specimen labelled "Liver resection segment 8" consists of a segment of liver 180 x 100 x 60mm.  A firm cream/yellow tumour deposit is identified abutting the capsule surface, measuring 27 x 22 x 18mm.  The deposit is 15mm from the closest resection margin.  The remainder of liver appears unremarkable.
Blocks:  1 & 2- representative tumour; 3 - uninvolved liver; 4 - reserve block.
C.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of an intact gallbladder 85mm in length with a maximal external diameter of 40mm.  The serosa appears unremarkable.  The maximum thickness of the wall is 3mm.  The mucosa has prominent yellow streaks throughout but otherwise appears unremarkable.  No gallstones are identified.  
Blocks:  1 - body; 2- fundus; 3- shave cystic duct margin and neck.  
D.  Specimen labelled"Diaphragm" consists of a piece of tan tissue with a staple line measuring 28 x 8 x 8mm.  The staple line is removed and the margin inked black.  Specimen is serially sectioned.  AE 1 block.  (TO:  VJ:  AU/mm 15.7.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr K Mcauliffe): 
A.  Sections show liver with fibrofat adherent tothe capsular surface.  Part of the liver segment shows recent, severe ischaemic changes in the centrilobular regions.  No tumour is seen.  Away from the ischaemic area there are some moderate, non-specific chronic inflammatory changes inportal tracts.  There is mild fibrous expansion of portal tracts but there is no significant bridging fibrosis.    
B.  Sections show a deposit of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, consistent with a metastasis from colon.  There is extensive tumour necrosis centrally.  No definite lymphovascular invasion is identified.  The resection margin is free of tumour.  
C.  Sections show gallbladder wall.  The mucosa shows cholesterolosis.  Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses project into and through the muscle layer into the subserosa focally. There is a mild infiltrate of scattered chronic inflammatory cells through thewall.  No acute inflammation is seen.
D.  Sections show skeletal muscle with overlying haemorrhagic and reactive appearing fibrous tissue.  No tumour is seen.  (ec) 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.   Liver resection segment 3:  Recent ischaemic changes in part of segment.
B.   Liver resection segment 8:  Metastatic adenocarcinoma.
C.   Gallbladder:  Mild chronic cholecystitis. 
D.   Diaphragm:  No tumour.  
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (18.7.63):
SpecimenB was incorrectly designated as "segment 8/9" in the previous report.  There is no liver segment 9.  This has now been corrected (see above).
 
  

