Episode No:  60C480212J
600480.FDH

Dolce, Gerry FELIPE 
Lab No:  60C48021
Olivera
URUNGA  SA  6509
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  1/4/1983
Sex:  M
Collected: 07/12/2012 at 16:40
Location:  Envoi pathology-BOONAH HOSPITAL
DR EMILIO MELVIN DEVILLIERS
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Large descending colon tumour.  Perforated through Gerotas fascia left kidney.  HT/cholesterol.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left hemicolectomy" consists of a segment of left colon, 220mm in length and upto 80mm in maximum diameter.  The external surface has an area of perforation, 100mm from one of the surgical margin and 120mm from the other surgical margin.  The centre of the colon is looped and has a large circumferential ulcerated and necrotic tumour, 60mm (proximal to distal).  On sectioning the tumour is up to 30mm thick and invades through the colonic wall into pericolic fat.  Representative sections taken.
Blocks:  1 - proximal and distal margin; 2 & 3 - composite of tumour with perforation; 4 & 5 - tumour; 6 - tumour with proximal colon; 7 - tumour with distal colon; 8 - tumour (reserved block); 9 & 10 - tumour with ?Lymph node; 11 - fatty tissue ?lymph node 12 to 15 - pericolic fatwith ?lymph nodes.   
B.  Specimen labelled "Deep margin of renal capsule" consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue, 10 and 12mm in maximum diameter.  AE 1 block.
(TO: CL; JU/mm 2.12.62) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr R Pyanowski): 
A & B.  Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon.  A synoptic report follows.
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:	
Maximum tumour diameter:     60mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:     100mm
Tumour perforation:     Yes (pT4) 

Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS.
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate




Local invasion
	Beyond muscularis propria.
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not involved.
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: 13	
Number of lymph nodes involved: 0	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Present (Mural) 
Perineural invasion
No.
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Sections from the perforation site show necrotic tissue and acute inflammatory exudate but no tumour is identified within this necrotic/inflammatory tissue, on the serosa of the adjacent colon or on the adjacent outer surface of the specimen. 
The specimen labeled "Deep margin of renal capsule" (Specimen B) shows inflamed granulation tissue only. No tumour is seen in this tissue.
Residual tumour status
RX	Cannot be reliably assessed as tumour has perforated bowel wall. 
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Loss of nuclear staining
PMS2		Loss of nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.

DIAGNOSIS:
Left hemilcolectomy:  Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.  
pT4  pN0  pMX  RX.  Loss of MLH1 and PMS2 nuclear staining.




