SPR no: 67Y689574U
MRN no: 6796895
Site_name: CASINO AND DISTRICT MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportSUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (23/5/67):

CLINICAL:
Right tube and ovary.  PMB.  Bilateral ovarian mass.  Ca 125 = 145.  Endometrial biopsy: Grade 1 endometrial cancer.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of an 80 x 50 x 45mm solid and cystic focally disrupted mass with attached fallopian tube 48 x 6mm.  The external surface is smooth.  Slices show a 45mm diameter solid nodule with a tan cut surface and associated debris.  Two sections of solid area for frozen section. The cystic area is unilocular and has a wall measuring 1 to 3mm.  The fallopian tube is unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 and 2 - frozen section; 3 to 5 - further sections through solid area; 6 to 8 - sections through cystic area; 9 to 11 - all of fallopian tube embedded.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A.  Endometrioid carcinoma with squamous differentiation.
Phone results to Prof Q Yohn via Anaesthetist by A/Prof Q Kingston, Dr Q Wisbey &amp;amp; Dr Q Haberern
at 1:35pm on 22.06.2018

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a mass measuring 90 x 55 x 45mm with attached fallopian tube segment 15 x 8mm.  The external surface is intact.  The cut surface is multi cystic and solid with the solid area measuring 45 x 35 x 35mm.  The cyst contains mucinous and haemorrhagic material.  Solid areas are sampled for frozen section.  The fallopian tube is unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 and 2 - frozen section; 3 to 9 - further sections through mass; 10 and 11 - all of fallopian tube segment embedded.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
B.  Endometrioid carcinoma with squamous differentiation.
Phone results to Prof Q Colling via Anaesthetist by A/Prof Q Catrini and Dr Q Wieto
at 1:40pm on 25.08.2018.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus and cervix&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix and segment of right fallopian tube weighing 76 grams in total and received partially opened.  The uterus measures 85 x 45 x 30mm and has a smooth and shiny serosal surface.  The cervix measures 35 x 28mm and appears slightly haemorrhagic.  Within the endometrial cavity there is a fungating exophytic tumour involving the circumference of the lower uterine segment and extending along the anterior uterine wall into the fundus.  The tumour measures 46 x 37mm and is seen to extend to within 25mm of the anterior cervix and 33mm from the posterior cervix.  Macroscopically the tumour invades 7mm deep in a myometrium which measures up to 15mm thick.  The endometrium elsewhere is 1 to 2mm thick.  The myometrium is otherwise unremarkable.  The right fallopian tube segment measures 18mm in length and up to 6mm in diameter, and is unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - full LS of anterior body and cervix with deepest tumour invasion; 4 to 6 - full LS of posterior body and cervix showing tumour in fundus and lower uterine segment; 7 - section from anterior lower uterine segment with deepest invasion; 8 - all of fallopian tube fragment embedded.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omental biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of omental fat measuring 100 x 65 x 10mm.  The fat is lobular in nature and no masses are identified.  RS in 3 blocks.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left external iliac lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of multiple pieces of fatty tissue 44 x 27 x 17mm.  Two possible lymph nodes are identified measuring 8 and 17mm in maximal dimension.
Blocks: 1 - smaller node; 2 and 3 - larger node in four sections.

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left obturator lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of multiple pieces of fatty tissue 48 x 33 x 12mm.  Two possible lymph nodes are identified measuring 17 and 25mm in maximal dimension.
Blocks: 1 - smaller node bisected; 2 and 3 - larger node in six sections.

G.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right external iliac lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of multiple pieces of fatty tissue 55 x 28 x 12mm in aggregate.  One possible lymph node is identified measuring 30mm in maximal dimension.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - one lymph node in seven sections.

H.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right obturator lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of multiple fragments of fatty tissue 42 x 33 x 10mm in aggregate.  Three possible lymph nodes are identified measuring 9 to 30mm in maximal dimension.
Blocks: 1 and 2 - one lymph node per block bisected; 3 and 4 - one lymph node seven sections.

I.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right common iliac lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node measuring 20 x 10 x 8mm.  AE 1 block, one node in four sections.

J.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left common iliac lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fatty tissue 20 x 6 x 3mm.  No macroscopic lymph node is identified.  AE 1 block.   (TO:AP/vo 25/11/69)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Q Raskin):
A.  Sections of the ovary show involvement by a grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma with extensive squamous differentiation.  There is some inflammation and foreign body reaction to keratin in the stroma.  There is also some endometriosis in soft tissue adjacent to the ovary.  No tumour is identified on the surface of the ovary.
Sections of the fallopian tube are unremarkable.

B.  Sections of the ovary show involvement by a grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma with prominent squamous differentiation, similar to specimen A.  There is some stromal necrosis with associated inflammation and foreign body reaction, consistent with a reaction to keratin.
There may be tumour present on the surface of the ovary focally (block B9).
Sections of the fallopian tube are unremarkable.

C.  Sections show a grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium.  There is prominent  squamous differentiation.  The tumour invades myometrium.  Maximum depth of myometrial invasion is 5mm out of a total myometrial thickness of 9mm.  There is focal lymphovascular invasion.
Tumour extends into the lower uterine segment and abuts the upper endocervix, however no definite cervical involvement is seen.
The cervix is unremarkable.
Endometrium away from the tumour is thin and inactive.  A leiomyoma is noted in the myometrium.
Sections of the portion of right fallopian tube are unremarkable.

D.  Sections show unremarkable fat.  No tumour is seen.

E.  Sections show one lymph node.  No tumour is seen.

F.  Sections show two lymph nodes.  No tumour is seen.

G.  Sections show one lymph node.  No tumour is seen.

H.  Sections show three lymph nodes.  No tumour is seen.

I.  Sections show one lymph node.  No tumour is seen.

J.  Sections show fat.  No lymph node is seen.  No tumour is seen.

Comment:  The ovarian tumours both have a very similar appearance to the endometrial tumour, with prominent squamous differentiation.  It is uncertain whether the ovarian tumours are metastases from the endometrium, or separate primaries.
Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr Q Zielesch.

Immunostains for mismatch repair enzymes will be performed on the ovarian and endometrial tumours, and a supplementary report issued.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left ovary and fallopian tube:
1.  Grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of ovary, with prominent squamous differentiation.
2.  Focal endometriosis in para-ovarian soft tissue.

B.  Right ovary and fallopian tube:  Grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of ovary, with prominent  squamous differentiation.

C.  Uterus:
1.  Grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of endometrium invading myometrium greater than 50%.
2.  Leiomyoma.

D.  Omental biopsy:  No tumour.
E.  Left external ileac lymph node:  No tumour (0/1).
F.  Left obturator lymph nodes:  No tumour (0/2).
G.  Right external iliac lymph node:  No tumour (0/1).
H.  Right obturator lymph nodes:  No tumour (0/3).
I.  Right common iliac lymph node:  No tumour (0/1).
J.  Left common iliac tissue:  No lymph node, no tumour.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (10.2.65):
A, C.  Immunostains for mismatch repair enzymes have been performed on the tumours in the left ovary and in the endometrium.
There is preserved nuclear staining for the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 in both tumours.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI).


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (23/5/71):
ER and PR requested by Dr OMER Landruth.

Receptors (Block A3, left ovary):
ER:  	Positive
50% of nuclei stained
predominant intensity of staining:  strong
PR:  	Positive
60% of nuclei stained
predominant intensity of staining:  strong

Receptors (Block B5, right ovary):
ER:  	Positive
60% of nuclei stained
predominant intensity of staining:  strong
PR:  	Positive
80% of nuclei stained
predominant intensity of staining:  strong

Receptors (Block C7, endometrium):
ER:  	Positive
80% of nuclei stained
predominant intensity of staining:  strong
PR:  	Positive
80% of nuclei stained
predominant intensity of staining:  strong
