Episode No:  90P453566I
9054535.RQI

BARNO, XIOMARA 
Lab No:  74C63521
Silver Meadow
WINTON  New South Wales  3930
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  4/12/1997
Sex:  F
Collected: 24/5/2063 at :
Location:  2.23HR STAY SURGICAL UNIT-HEYWOOD RURAL HEALTH
DR DERRICK ANTONE SPRENGELMEYER
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Right hemicolectomy.  Previous ovarian Ca debulking.  ?Adenocarcinoma hepatic flexure.  Leftliver & mesenteric nodule metastatic ovarian cancer +/- colonic cancer.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy" consists of a segment of terminal ileum measuring 175mm in length x 12mm in diameter adjoining the caecum and ascending colon measuring 130mm inlength x 60mm in maximum dimension.  The appendix has been previously removed.  The mesentery wraps around the ascending colon.  The ascending colon has a large ulcerated diverticulum measuring 70mm in length x 25mm in maximum dimensionand this is lined by solid cream nodules of tumour.  The diverticulum is 70mm from the ileocaecal valve and 42mm from the distal surgical margin (ascending colon).  Within and adjacent to the diverticulum there are several hard nodulesof tumour in the bowel wall.  The largest tumour deposit is 25 x 15 x 15mm and is at the tip of the diverticulum.  Tumour also appears to involve part of the bowel the serosa and mesentery.  The tumour nodules have a solid white homogeneous cut surface.  A small tumour nodule is also identified in the bowel wall at the distal surgical margin.  The terminal ileum is unremarkable.  Representative sections.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - distal and proximal margins; 3- ileum; 4 to10 - full cross section of diverticulum and tumour; 11 & 12 - paired blocks area of deepest invasion of tumour through bowel wall; 13 - tumour nodule in ascending colon (away from diverticulum); 14 - serosa from caecum near appendix scar;15 to 20 - lymph nodes (15- two lymph nodes; 16 - five lymph nodes; 17 - ?four lymph nodes; 18 - three lymph nodes; 19 - two lymph  nodes; 20 - three lymph nodes.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Left liver lobe" consists of a wedge of liver measuring 120 x 60 x 45mm.  The outer capsule is roughened and haemorrhagic.  There is adherent fat to an area 30 x 20mm on the capsular surface and in this area there is a hard nodular tumour deposit.  The surgical margin is inked blue.  The tumour is 30mm from the closest surgical margin and abuts the liver capsule.  The cut surface shows dense white tissue with central areas of haemorrhage and necrosis.  Representative in 6 blocks.  
Blocks:  1 & 2 - paired blocks; 3 - tumour at edge of capsule; 4 & 5 - paired blocks of tumour6 - representative of normal liver.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Mesenteric nodule small bowel" consists oftwo biopsies 5 and 3mm each.  AE 1 block.  (TO: VM; MG/mm 27.5.63)

MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr T Grivno): 
A.  Sections of the largest described tumour mass in the diverticulumshow a deposit of moderately differentiated serous carcinoma ulcerating the mucosa and involving submucosa, muscularis propria and subserosaltissue.  The tumour consists of sheets and trabeculae of cells with large nuclei and a variable amount of amphophilic cytoplasm.  These cells form slit-like glands.  Mitoses are frequent.  There is prominent lymphovascular invasion in the adjacent bowel wall and extending throughout the mesentery.  There are multiple, variable sized tumour deposits identified in the bowel wall at, and near, the diverticulum, and in the mesentery.  Many of these deposits are centred on vessels.  At least one tumour deposit is seenextending to the serosal surface of the colon focally.  Several variable sized tumour nodules are present within the submucosa, muscle layer and subserosa of the colon wall at the distal resection margin.  
With immunostains the tumour cells are strongly cytokeratin 7 and CA-125 positive, but cytokeratin 20 negative, consistent with serous carcinoma.  In addition to the multiple described tumour nodules in the mesentery, at least seven lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma are also identified.
B.  Sections show liver with adeposit of moderately differentiated serous carcinoma, similar to specimen A.  Lymphovascular invasion is noted just outside the main tumour mass.  Tumour also extends into part of the adherent fibrofat on the serosal surface of the liver.  The liver otherwise does not show any significant abnormality.   
C.  Sections show pieces of fibrofat with involvement by moderately differentiated serous carcinoma. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right hemicolectomy:  Multiple deposits of metastatic moderately differentiated serous carcinoma in colon wall and mesentery, and metastatic tumour in at least seven mesenteric lymph nodes. 
B.  Left liver lobe:  Metastatic serous carcinoma.
C.  Mesenteric nodules small bowel:  Metastatic serous carcinoma.

