
Episode No:  95T235173H
957235.ETI

Anstey, Yarramba 
Lab No:  95T23517
Maroon Bells
BLAXLAND  Queensland  6440
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  28/10/1994
Sex:  M
Collected: 8/6/2063 at :
Location:  INTENSIVE CARE UNIT SOUTH-GRENFELL MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
DR SIGMUND Brian Macey
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY, DR Ewy
CLINICAL:
Intraabdominal sarcoma resected 18/12 ago.  ?Leiomyo.  ?Chondro.  Recurrence in L upper quadrant, on splenic flexure of colon.  Resection of tumour and colon (+peritoneal nodules).  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimenlabelled "Left colon tumour" consists of a segment of bowel measuring 140mm in length.  Adherent to the serosal surface of the bowel is a large mass measuring 180 x 100 x 150mm with attached fat measuring 220 x 50 x 10mm.  The mucosal surface of the bowel is unremarkable. On sectioning the tumour appears to abut the serosal wall of the bowel but not invade it. The cut surface of the tumour has a variegated appearance and is composed of multicystic spaces, comprising approximately 20% of the tumour area, as well as, solid cream fleshy tumour, areas of necrosis and approximately 20% which contains bony hard tumour.  Several lymph nodes/tumour deposits are identified in the attached fat.
Blocks: 1 - bowel margin; 2 - bowel margin with adjacent nodule; 3 to 5 - sections of bowel with underlying tumour; 6 to 15 - representative tumour; 16 - one lymph node bisected; 17 - ?lymph nodes; 18 - nodules; 19 - one lymph node bisected; 20 - block of calcified tumour.

B.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel nodule" consists of a cream nodule measuring 15 x 10 x 5mm.   BAE 1 block.
 
C.  Specimen labelled "Omental nodule" consists of fibrofatty tissue measuring 30 x 15 x 8mm.  On sectioning the nodule appears hard and calcified.   BAE 2 blocks.
(CA/ta 8/7/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr Y Tulis/Dr Y ALLEN-Rauen)
A - C.  Specimens A - C show similar histopathological features. The left colon tumour, small bowel and omental nodules are foci of high grade malignant sarcoma. The sarcoma has a mixed malignant spindled cell, as well as, osteo-chondrosarcomatous component. Highly pleomorphic malignant spindled, stellate and multinucleated cells are present. There are scattered foci of necrosis and calcification. Although most of the tumour expands the pericolic fat, the tumour focally infiltrates the outer layers of the muscularis propria (blockA6). The overlying mucosa and submucosa appear unremarkable. The bowel surgical margins appear clear of tumour, although there is a tumour nodule within the pericolic adipose tissue, 6mm from one margin. Eight separate deposits are also seen in the surrounding pericolic fat. 

COMMENT:
The left colon tumour, small bowel and omental nodules are foci of high grade malignant sarcoma. The sarcoma has a variable appearance with a high grade malignant spindled cell component admixed with osteochondrosarcomatous areas. The morphology is similar to that of the previously described pelvic tumour and would be consistent with a leiomyosarcoma with extensive high grade osteosarcoma and chondrosarcoma-like areas (?dedifferentiation) (NSW Health RIVERVIEW YO-72-351732/Reviewed by Professors Jamar and Jack). 


DIAGNOSIS:
A, B and C.  Left colon tumour, small bowel nodule and omental nodule: Recurrent/residual high grade malignant sarcoma (please see comment). 


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:  (28.8.63)
Cytogenetics REPORT:
Reported by I Klamn, Validated by Dr I Lidey, PARKES 9 EAST's Pathology.
"Analysis:
Cells analysed (GTW banding):		2
Band Resolution Level:			<300
Karyotype:
Insufficient metaphases.
Comment:
Only 2 incomplete metaphases were obtained from this sample.  This is an insufficient number of cells for a complete cytogenetic analysis.  Please advise the laboratory if FISH would be useful for this case". 

