
 3460984.XLZ
Lulow, Bailey
34R09848

Last edited : 6/8/2062		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Interval debulking of serous carcinoma, two cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Thalassemia minor.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, tubes, ovary plus sigmoid and appendix", consists of an enlarged uterus measuring 170 x 110 x 100mm with cervix and a segment of colon attached. The left ovary is identified and is attached to the piece of colon and an area of possibly necrotic tissue.  The cervix measures 45 x 25mm. The specimen in total weighs 1129g.  On section, the endometrium has a maximum thickness of 2mm.  The myometrium has a maximum thickness of 40mm and has multiple fibroids ranging from 10-50mm in maximum diameter. The right ovary measures 30 x 20 x 20mm and has a cystic appearance.  On section, the cut surface has a variegated appearance with solid cystic areas. The segment of colon adherent to the ovary measures 220mm in length and up to 20mm in maximum diameter. Themucosal surface is unremarkable.  A softened, possibly necrotic and solid area between the right ovary and the segment of colon is identified.  It measures 45 x 20 x 10mm. Blocks 1-4 - representative sections of anterior body and cervix; 5-12 - 1LS posterior body and cervix with colon and tumour; 13 & 14 - 1 composite of myometrium and tumour; 15-18 - 1 full face of ovary; 19-20 - 2 representative sections of the right ovary; 21 & 22 - composite of necrotic tumoral area with colon; 23 - colon proximal margin; 24 - colon distal margin; 25 - 1 representative section of leiomyoma with area of necrosis. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of two pieces of omentum almost totally replaced by tumour deposits.  It measures 200 x 80 x 20mm in maximum diameter. On section, the tumour deposits are solid and fibrotic. Representative sections in 
3 blocks; 4 - tumour for tissue bank.
C.  Specimen labelled "Left pelvic lymph node", consists of a piece of fatty tissue measuring 20 x 10 x 10mm with a lymph node measuring 10 x 10 x 5mm. The specimen is bisected, AE 1 block. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Donuts", consists of two donuts of colon measuring 10 and 20mm in maximum diameter.  Block 1- small donut; 2 - large donut. (PG/ec 3.8.62)  
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr J Schlimmer): 
A. The sections show high grade carcinoma in the posterior uterine wall, serosa of the adjacent colon, fallopian tubes, ovaries and adjacent fibrofatty tissue.  Some tumour cells show squamoid or rhabdoid features and many highly atypical tumour cells with large pleomorphic nuclei and prominent nucleoli are seen.  In some areas, the tumour cells show degenerative changes but no areas of necrosis are found.  Mitoses are readily found.  There is mild fibrosis.  Tumour cells are seen within thin walled lymphovascular channels.  The uninvolved endometrium is proliferative.  One of the leiomyomata shows an area of hyaline necrosis with dystrophic calcification.  no atypical features are seen in the other leiomyomata.   No tumour is seen in the proximal and distal margins of the colon or in the sections of cervix. 
B. The sections show widespread high grade carcinoma replacing most of the omental tissue. The tumour shows nests of pleomorphic cells with intervening fibrosis.  The appearances are consistent with chemotherapy related changes.
C. The sections show scattered small deposits of high grade carcinoma mainly in the subcapsular and trabecular sinuses of the lymph node.
D. The sections of colonic tissue show patchy acute and chronic inflammation. There is an area of tumour inthe serosa in one piece.
CONCLUSION
A,B. Uterus, ovaries, colon, omentum: High grade carcinoma, chemotherapy effect.
C. Leftpelvic lymph node: Metastatic carcinoma.
D.  Donuts: High grade carcinoma, chemotherapy effect.

