Episode No:  05F402391A
0524023.ZDA

SUNFORD, Maisie 
Lab No:  05F40239,05F40239
Linksley
MERIMBULA  WA5421
Specimen: Fluid,Tissue
D.O.B:  2/11/2003
Sex:  F
Collected: 23/7/2062 at :
Location:  Tissue Pathology and Diagnostic Oncology - HEATHCOTE HEALTH
DR Senaida RYAN Hubel
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Pelvic mass. 63 year old woman with elevated CA 125 and pelvic mass. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Omental nodule", consists of a tumoral mass with papilliform appearance and blood clot measuring 50mm in aggregate.  Two representative sections for frozen section.  Blocks 1 & 2 - FS; 3-5 - representative sections from the rest of the FS tissue. 
FROZEN SECTION:  Serous carcinoma. 
Result to anaesthetist by Dr B Kemick at 11:15am on 21.5.12. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Right ovary + tube", consists of a nodular lesion ? ovary and two pieces of papillary tumour. The nodular lesion measures 50 x 50 x 40mm.  One piece of papillary tumour measures 60 x 50 x 20mm and has a fallopian tube attached, 35 x 5 x 5mm.  The other piece of papillary tumour measures 30 x 20 x20mm.  On sectioning, the nodular lesion has a variegated appearance with solid and cystic areas, areas of haemorrhage and areas of necrosis.  Blocks 1-3- three representative sections from the ? ovary; 4-6 - representative sections from the papillary mass; 7 - 2LS fimbria; 8 - rest of fallopian tube.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Pelvic mass", consists of a tumoral mass 130 x 100 x 30mm. A fallopian tube is identifiedmeasuring 60mm in length and up to 20mm in maximum diameter. The serosal surface has multiple tumour deposits.  Blocks 1-13 - representative sections from the tumour; 14 - LS fimbria; 15- TS fallopian tube with tumour; 16 - tumour (blocked for tissue banking).
D.  Specimen labelled "Rectosigmoid and pelvic mass", consists of a segment of colon and rectum 140mm in length and up to 40mm in maximum diameter. The external surface is almost totally covered by a ragged and necrotic tumour measuring 110mm from proximal to distal and 70mm in maximum diameter.  The mucosal surface of the colon is unremarkable apart from features of diverticular disease.  Block 1 - proximal and distal margins; 2-4 - colon with tumoral deposits.  
E.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of a large piece of tumour measuring 120 x 100 x 50mm.  It has a variegated appearance with cystic and solid areas, areas of haemorrhage and necrosis.  The cystic areas are filled with serous fluid.  Three representative sections from the solid and cystic areas in 3 blocks.
F.  Specimen labelled "Bowel mesentery", consists ofa tumoral nodule measuring 30 x 25 x 10mm.  AE 2 blocks.  
G.  Specimen labelled "Anastomosis donut bowel", consists of two donuts of bowel, one with a blue suture.  They measure 20 x 10 x 2mm and 10 x 10 x 10mm. AE 2 blocks.  (PK/ec 24.7.62) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr B Braxton)  
A.  Sections show omentum with extensive involvement by high grade serous borderline tumour and low grade (well differentiated) serous carcinoma.  The tumour consists of papillary structures and some glands. The tumour cells have medium sized and large, relatively uniform nuclei, generally with a single prominent nucleolus, and a variable amount of eosinophilic cytoplasm.  Some psammoma bodies are noted. Some of the tumour has a micropapillary appearance.  
B.  Sections of the papillary tumour show a high grade serous borderline tumour and low grade serous carcinoma.  Low grade carcinoma is predominant.  There is prominent psammomatous calcification.  The described nodular lesion is a tumour mass, with no ovary seen in this tissue, but some ovarian stroma is identified in association with the main papillary mass.  Sections from the fimbrial end of the fallopian tube, and elsewhere, show scattered psammoma bodies in the epithelium but no significant epithelial atypia; the significance of thischange is uncertain.  There is also low grade serous carcinoma on the serosa of the tube.  
C.   Sections show high grade serous borderline tumour and low grade serous carcinoma, with a similar appearance to specimens A and B.  Some ovarianstroma is identified in association with the mass focally.  There is serous carcinoma on the serosal surface of the fallopian tube.  The tubal epithelium has focal psammoma bodies but there is no cytologic atypia and the tube is otherwise unremarkable.  
D.   Sections show large intestinal wall.  There is a deposit of low grade serous carcinoma on the serosal surface and focally extendinginto the outer muscularis propria.  The submucosa and mucosa of the bowel are unremarkable.  The proximal and distal excision margins of the bowel are free of tumour. 
E.   Sections of omentum show extensive involvement by high grade serous borderline tumour and low grade serous carcinoma. 
F.   Sections show fibrofat with some medium sizedmuscular blood vessels.  There is low grade serous carcinoma on part of the serosal aspect of the tissue. 
G.   Sections show donuts of large intestinal wall.  Adjacent to the serosa of one of the donuts there are focal disrupted psammoma bodies and atypical epithelial cells, suggesting focal serosal involvement by tumour.  tumour involvement of the serosa. This involves one of the donuts.  (ec) 
 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.   Omental nodule:  High grade serous borderline tumour and low grade (well differentiated) serous carcinoma.  
B.   Right ovary and tube:  High grade serous borderline tumour and low grade serous carcinoma. 
C.   Pelvic mass:  High grade serous borderline tumour and low grade serous carcinoma.
D.   Rectosigmoid and pelvic mass:  Low grade serous carcinoma. 
E.   Omentum:  High grade serous borderline tumour and low grade serous carcinoma. 
F.   Bowel mesentery:  Low grade serous carcinoma. 
G.  Donuts:  Features suggesting focal serosal involvement of one donut by tumour. 
Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr B Baiza.
 
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (Dr B Stelter, 1.7.62)
This case was discussed at the Gynaecology Oncology Tumour Board meeting on 30.7.62 and immunoperoxidase stains for oestrogen and progesterone receptors were requested.  
Immunoperoxidase stains show strong expression of oestrogen receptor antigen in almost all the tumour cells.  Progesterone receptor antigen is strongly expressed in about 20% of the tumour cells.

