
Episode No:  84B929823S
8409298.GJS

NEELLY, ERICK 
Lab No:  84B92982
North Salado
WYNDHAM  South Australia  4512
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  16/6/2021
Sex:  F
Collected: Unknown at :
Location:  DICKINSON 2 SOUTH-STANTHORPE HOSPITAL
DR BRAD EWAN CARIN
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Rt thyroid nodule - suspicious for malignancy on FNA.  Rt hemithyroid for frozen section.  Total thyroidectomy.  Right hemithyroid showed papillary Ca.Left hemithyroidectomy and central neck lymph nodes.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right hemithyroid" consists of a ?bilobed ?right lobe + isthmus.  The larger lobe measures 35 x 25 x 15mm and the smaller lobe 25 x 15 x 15mm.  On sectioningthere is a 10mm diameter pale tumour in the smaller lobe abutting the capsule.  One representative section for frozen section.  There is also a small 2mm nodule noted in the larger lobe abutting the capsule (not sampled for frozen section).
Blocks:  1- frozen section; 2 to 8 - rest of thyroid embedded from superior to inferior.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Papillary carcinoma.
Phone result to Prof Cole by Dr V Merchen at 10.15 on 14.03.13.
B.  Specimen labelled "Lymph node" consists of an 8mm node.  The specimen is bisected and all embedded for frozen section.  
Blocks:  1 - frozen section. 
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Psammoma bodies present.  Suspicious for metastasis.
Phone result to Prof Aristide by Dr V Roethle at 10.15 on 14.03.13.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Left thyroid" consists of a left hemithyroid measuring 35 x 20 x 10mm and weighing 3.6g.  The anterior margin is inked blue and the tracheal margin is inked black.  On sectioning multiple 2mm to 3mm pale areas are identified.  AE from superior to inferior in 6 blocks.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Central neck nodes" consists of an irregular piece of fatty tissue containing multiple lymphnodes ranging from 4mm to 6mm.  AE 2 blocks.   
(ZI/mm 17.5.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr V Wynott):  
A.  Sections of right lobe of thyroid show two separate foci of papillary thyroid carcinoma measuring 10mm and 4mm respectively.  The larger tumour (designated as tumour 1) was sampled for frozen section.  Tumour 1 shows a mixed papillary and follicular architecture.  Tumour 2 shows follicular architecture only.  No solid/insular architecture is seen.  No coagulative necrosis is seen.  Both tumours are well circumscribed but not encapsulated.  There is no evidence of vascular invasion.  No extra-thyroidal extension is seen.  The tumour 1 is confined within the thyroid and is completely excised.  The tumour 2 is present focally at the surgical resection margin, indicating microscopic residual disease (block A7).  The thyroid tissueaway from the tumour shows Hashimoto's thyroiditis/lymphocytic thyroiditis.  No parathyroid tissue is seen.  Two (2) small lymph nodes are present within the soft tissueattached to the right lobe.  The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of tumour metastasis.
B.  One (1) lymph node is identified.  Several Psammoma body type calcifications are present but no actual papillary carcinoma cells are seen.  In the right clinical setting, this is considered as positive tumour metastasis.
C.  Sections of left lobe of thyroid show three separate foci of papillary thyroid carcinoma measuring 3mm, 2mm and 1mm respectively.  All the tumours show follicular architecture only.  No solid/insular architecture is seen.  No coagulative necrosis is seen.  All tumours are well circumscribed but not encapsulated.  There is no evidence of vascular invasion.  No extra-thyroidal extension is seen.  All the tumours are confined within the thyroid and are completely excised.  The thyroid tissue away from the tumour shows Hashimoto's thyroiditis/lymphocytic thyroiditis.  No parathyroid tissue is seen.  
D.  Six (6) lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  A small piece of thyroid tissue is also present with thyroiditis/lymphocytic thyroiditis.  There is no evidence of tumour metastasis.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right hemithyroid - Papillary thyroid carcinoma.
B.  Lymph node - Metastatic papillary carcinoma (see text).
C.  Left thyroid - Papillary thyroid carcinoma.
D.  Centralneck node - No evidence of malignancy (0/6).

