
 222485.OEE
Freudiger, Blake
22H48551

Last edited : 2/3/2064		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
GIST from c/o junction. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Stomach", consists of a pouch shaped segment of stomach with one opened end and one blind end measuring 65mm in length and up to 40mm in diameter.  The serosal surface is smooth.  The resection margin (circumference of the opened end) is inked blue after removing the staples.  There is a solid submucosal tumour 53 x 30 x 22mm.  The tumour has a pale cut surface.  The mucosal overlying the tumour appears tobe focally ulcerated.  The tumour is well defined and only loosely adherent to the overlying mucosa.  The tumour is 3mm from the resection margin (after removing the staples).
Blocks:  1 - tumour and blue inked new margin; 2 to 6 - representative sections of the tumour (3 - reserve block); 7 - section of mucosa away from the tumour (diff quick requested).   (EG/bl 26/3/64)
MICROSCOPIC (reportedby Dr H Brazen):
Sections show a circumscribed tumour within submucosa and partly ulcerating the overlying mucosa.  The tumour is of low to moderate cellularity and consists of spindle shaped cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm, in haphazard fascicles.  The cells have themorphologic appearance of smooth muscle cells and this is confirmed with strong positive staining for desmin.  Stains for C-Kit (CD117) and CD34 are negative.  No mitoses are identified and the proliferation index with a K-67 stain is very low, <1%.  The appearances are of a leiomyoma.  There isno significant atypia and there is no evidence of malignancy.  Excision is complete.  The overlying mucosa shows features of a severe chronic gastritis.  No Helicobacter is identified.  The gastritis may be non-specific, related to the mass lesion, but there is associated prominentatrophy of specialised gastric glands and the possibility of an autoimmune gastritis should be considered.  There is no intestinal metaplasiaor dysplasia.  
DIAGNOSIS:
Stomach:  
1.  Leiomyoma.
2.  Severe chronic gastritis with gland atrophy, see text.
  

