Episode No:  34Y632872I
3496328.TFI

SPEISER, LOVELLA POSEY 
Lab No:  34Y63287,34Y63287
Clarks
PEREGIAN BEACH  NT  2647
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  25/5/1992
Sex:  F
Collected: 27/8/2062 at :
Location:  RENAL CLINIC - COWRA DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR Chia Brooke RHEE
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (30.10.63):


CLINICAL:
75yo woman with ovarian/peritoneal cancer.  Received neoadjuvant chemotherapy.  Now interval debulking.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right tube and ovary" consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube.  The ovary measures 30 x 20 x 20mm.  It has a smooth and shiny external surface.  The fallopian tube is adherent to the ovary and measures 40mm in length and up to 5mm in maximum diameter.  The fimbrial end is present and has an unremarkable macroscopic appearance.  On sectioning, the ovary has a variegated appearance with cystic and solidareas.  The cystic areas are filled with serous fluid.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - four longitudinal sections of fimbria; 3 - two TS ?fallopian tube; 4 to 9 - ovary.
B.  Specimen labelled "Right ovarian tissue" consists of an irregular piece of tissue measuring 15 x 10 x 10mm.  BAE one block. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary" consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube.  The fallopian tube measures 50 x 5 x 5mm.  It has an unremarkable serosal surface.The ovary has a cystic appearance and measures 40 x 25 x 25mm.  On sectioning, it is filled with brown/yellow mucinous material.  The internal surface is covered by blood clot.  No normal ovarian tissue is identified macroscopically.  
Blocks:  1 to 4 - ovary, AE; 5 - two LS left fimbria; 6 - one LS fimbria, one TS left fallopian tube; 7 - ovarian ligament with nodular areas.
D.  Specimen labelled "Right renal ligament nodule" consists of an irregular piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 40 x 25 x 20mm.  On sectioning, solid and cystic areas are identified.  Representative sections in three blocks.
E.  Specimen labelled "Gastro-colicomentum" consists of a piece of omentum measuring 140 x 70 x 20mm.  There are multiple tumour deposits measuring up to 50mm in maximum diameter.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representative sections of tumour deposits;3 - tissue for tissue banking.   (EL/cc 28/8/62)
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr D Fulp):
A, B.  The sections of the ovary show a moderately differentiated serous carcinoma. It iscomposed of complex papillae, glands and solid areas.  The tumour cells have large, moderately pleomorphic nuclei and a variable amount of eosinophilic or pale cytoplasm.  Numerous psammoma bodies are seen.  There is some evidence of chemotherapy effect with replacement of tumour by fibroblastic tissue but this appears minimal (<10% tumour replacement).  Lymphovascular invasion is noted. There are small tumourdeposits at the fimbrial end of the tube but no carcinoma     in-situ of the tubal epithelium is seen.  Sections of the tube elsewhere are unremarkable.  Small tumour deposits are also noted on the serosal surfaces and within adnexal softtissues.
C.  The sections of ovary show poorly differentiated serous carcinoma which is partly cystic and partly solid.  There is a tumour deposit at the fimbrial end of the left tube but the tubal epithelium is unremarkable.There are also tumour deposits in the broad ligament.  There is some chemotherapy effect but this appears minimal.  
D.  The sections show fibroadipose tissue with several deposits of serous carcinoma measuring up to 10mm inmaximum diameter.  There is some chemotherapy effect with between 10 and 50% tumour replacement by fibroblastic tissue.
E. the sections of the omentum show multiple deposits of serous carcinoma.  There is some chemotherapy effect with between 10 and 50% tumour replacement by fibroblastic tissue.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right tube and ovary:  Moderately differentiated serous carcinoma involving ovary, fimbrial end of tube, and adnexal soft tissues. 
B.  Right ovarian tissue:  Moderately differentiated serous carcinoma
C.  Left tube and ovary:  Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma involving ovary, fimbrial end of tube, and broad ligament.  
 
D.  Right renal ligament nodule: Serous carcinoma.
E.  Gastro-colic omentum:  Serous carcinoma.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (30.10.63):
A.  Immunostains for hormone receptors have been performed as requested.
Oestrogen receptor:   Positive.
                                   100% of tumour cells show positive staining.
                                   Predominant intensity of staining:  Strong.
Progesterone receptor:   Negative.
 



