
Episode No:  97R027811M
9760278.EDM

KENNETH, Dudley JEMIMA 
Lab No:  97R02781
Guilfoy
URRAWEEN  QLD  5171
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  15/6/2007
Sex:  F
Collected: 20/02/2013 at 07:20
Location:  PARKES 9 EAST-TOCUMWAL HOSPITAL
DR PABLO DOYLE PONZIO
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (30.4.63):


CLINICAL:
Neoadjuvant.  Chemotherapy for ovarian cancer.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus + cervix +bilateral tubes and ovaries" consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing in total 110g.  The uterus measures 85 x 50 x 30mm and has a smooth and shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 35 x 35mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 2mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium is 25mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium contains one fibroid measuring 10mm in maximum diameter.  The right fallopian tube is 50 x 5 x 5mm.  The fimbria is present and unremarkable.  The right ovary measures 35 x 15 x 10mm.  The external surface has several fibrous adhesions.  The cut surface is unremarkable.  The left fallopian tube measures 60mm in length and up to 25mm in maximum diameter at the level of the fimbria which is attached to the ovary and has a dusky irregular appearance.  The left ovary has a cystic appearance with disrupted capsule, it measures 40 x 30 x 30mm.  The external surface is fibrous.  On sectioning the ovary has a cystic and solid appearance with white nodular architecture, areas of necrosis and haemorrhage.  
Blocks:  1 to 4 - one full longitudinal section anterior body and cervix; 5 to 8 - one full longitudinal section posterior body and cervix; 9 -representative section of fibroid; 10  to 13 - representative section from the tumour; 14 & 15 - tumour with TS left fallopian tube; 16 - tumour with LS left fimbria; 17 - two LS right fimbria; 18 - one TS right fimbria and one representative section of the right ovary; 19 - right cornu; 20 - left cornu; 21 - right parametrial tissue; 22 - left parametrial tissue; (reserved block 15)
B.  Specimen labelled "Right side wall nodule" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue, 5mm.  AE 1 block.
 
C.  Specimen labelled "Terminal ileal nodule" consists of two nodular pieces of tissue, 10 and 15mm in maximum diameter.  AE 1 block.
D.  Specimen labelled "Pararectal nodule" consists of multiple pieces of fibrous tissue and blood clot measuring in 60 x 30 x 30mm.  On sectioning several white solid nodules are identified.  AE 3 blocks.  
E.  Specimen labelled "Left paracolic gutter nodule" consists of a nodular piece of fibrofatty tissue with one ?lymph node, 10mm in maximum diameter.  AE 1 block.
F.Specimen labelled "Appendix" consists of an irregular piece of fatty tissue, 15 x 15 x 10mm with a tiny tubular structure ?appendix, 30 x 3mm.  The tubular structure is all embedded.
Blocks:  1 - two LS ?proximal appendix; 2- two LS ?mid appendix; 3 - two LS ?distal appendix.  
G.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a piece of omentum, 300 x 150 x 50mm.  On sectioning several tumour deposits are identified ranging from 2 to 10mm.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.  (Block 2 - reserved block).
(VJ/mm 24.4.63)   
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr X Millikan - 27.4.2063)
A.  The left ovarian tumour is a serous adenocarcinoma. The adenocarcinoma shows extensive involvement of the ovarian, as well as, fallopian tube parenchyma. There are areas of serosal involvement and foci of lymphovascular space invasion. Approximately 5% of the primary tumour shows high grade cytologic atypia. There is minimal chemotherapy related change (less than 5%). There is focal uterine serosal involvement by metastatic adenocarcinoma (anterior and posterior uterus). The uterine ectocervix and endocervix show patchy mild to moderate active inflammation and tubal metaplasia. There is no convincing cervical involvement by adenocarcinoma. The endometrium appears inactive/weakly proliferative with focal polypoid cystic atrophy. The myometrium shows a hyalinised leiomyoma. The right ovary and fallopian tube show scattered detached foci of metastatic adenocarcinoma. 
B.  Sectionsare of fibroadipose tissue showing extensive involvement by metastatic adenocarcinoma.
C.  Sections are of fibroadipose tissue showing extensive involvement by metastatic adenocarcinoma. 
D.  Sections are of fibroadipose tissue showing extensive involvement by metastatic adenocarcinoma. The adenocarcinoma shows focal clear cell change (less than 2%). There is minimal chemotherapy related change (involving approximately 5% of tumour).
E.  Sections are of fibroadipose tissue showing multifocal metastatic adenocarcinoma. There is minimal chemotherapy related change (involving approximately 5% of tumour). 
F.  Sections of appendix show fibrous obliteration of the appendiceal lumen. There are multiple foci of metastatic adenocarcinoma, located within the appendiceal serosal, muscularis propria and in peri-appendiceal adipose tissue. 
G.  Sections of omentum show multiple foci of metastatic adenocarcinoma. 
COMMENT:
The left ovarian/fallopian tube tumour is a serous adenocarcinoma.The separately received specimens show metastatic adenocarcinoma consistent with primary ovarian origin. Although the primary tumour contains minimal high grade atypia (less than 5%), most of the metastatic foci contain extensive high grade atypia. There is minimal chemotherapy related change (less than 5%). 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, bilateral tubes and ovaries: Left ovarian/fallopian tube serous adenocarcinoma.

B.  Right side wall nodule: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 

C.  Terminal ileal nodule: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 

D.  Pararectal nodule: Metastatic adenocarcinoma (focal clear cell change). 

E.  Left paracolic gutter nodule: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 

F.  Appendix: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 

G.  Omentum: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 
Please see comment. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (30.4.63, Dr X Rezak):
A.  Stains for mismatch repair have been performed as requested.
MSH2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MLH1:   Preserved nuclear staining.
PMS2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.





