
Episode No:  36V397758H
3683977.PVH

Holpp, Warrina RANDY JOE 
Lab No:  36V39775,36V39775
Good
BONGAREE  QLD  2217
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  23/11/1994
Sex:  F
Collected: 8/7/2063 at :
Location:  Orana - CUNNAMULLA HOSPITAL
DR Donny KOLASINSKI
Distribution:   FILE-COPY, DR Alfonzo,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (16.7.63):


CLINICAL:
Grade 1 endometrial cancer.  Laparoscopic hysterectomy and BSO today.  Peritoneal deposits.  Endometrial cancer on curettings.  Ovarian mass, normal Ca- 125, family history of bowel cancer.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Peritoneal biopsy" consists of a piece of tan and soft tissue 6 x 5 x 3mm.  AE for frozen section. 
Blocks: 1 - frozen section.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma.
Result to Dr Dana Salada by Dr I Windsheimer, Dr I Lampkins and Dr I Skok at 2.50pm on 6/5/13.
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, right tube + ovary + left tube" consists of auterus with attached cervix and bilateral tubes and ovaries weighing in total 68g.  The uterus measures 80 x 40 x 40mm and has a smooth and shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 30 x 20mm and has anunremarkable surface.  On sectioning, in the fundus there is a fungating and exophytic tumour measuring 20 x 20mm with a maximum thickness of 7mm out of a total myometrial thickness of 20mm.  Elsewhere the endometrium is 1mm thick.  There is a fibroid, 5mm diameter, in the myometrium.   measuring 5mm.  The myometrium is otherwise unremarkable.  The right fallopian tube measures 50 x 5 x 5mm.  The right ovary has a cystic appearance and measures 35 x 20 x 20mm.  On sectioning the cyst is filled with serous fluid.  The internal surface of the cyst is smooth.  The left fallopian tube has a looped appearance and measures 35mm long.  The tube appears congested and dilated in the middle part, up to 15mm in maximum diameter.  
Blocks: 1 to 4 - full representative section of anterior body and cervix; 5 & 6 - two representative sections of anterior endomyometrium; 7 - myometriumwith fibroid; 8 to 10 - one full LS of posterior body and cervix; 11 to 13 - three representative sections of the posterior and the myometrium with tumour; 14 - two LS right fimbria with cyst; 15 - one representative section of the right ovary with cyst and one TS of right fallopian tube with cyst; 16 - two LS of left fimbria; 17 & 18 - left fallopian tube multiple TS; 19 - right parametrial tissue; 20 - left parametrial tissue; re-select 21 to 25 - left cornu.
  
C.  Specimen labelled "Left ovary" consists of a enlarged multinodular and cystic ovary 50 x 60 x 40mm.  The cut surface has a variegated appearance with fibrous solid areas, glistening papillary areas andcystic areas with haemorrhage and mucoid gelatinous material.  Six representative sections in 6 blocks.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Omental biopsy" consists of a fragment of omentum 20 x 20 x 10mm with a small fibrous area 5mm in maximum diameter.  AE 2 blocks.
(MR/ta 9/7/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr I Proby):
A.  Sections show fibrofat with a deposit of grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  
B.  Sections of the cervix are unremarkable. Sections of the endometrial tumour show an endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  It is architectural grade 1 but has severe cytologic atypia, with large vesicular nuclei and prominent nucleoli, so is overall grade 2.  No definite myometrial invasion is seen.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen. There is no cervical involvement.  There are foci of adenomyosis in the myometrium and a leiomyoma is also confirmed in the myometrium.
Sections of the left fallopian tube show that this is distended by a grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma with a papillary architecture.  This involves the mucosa and projects into the tube lumen.  Most of the lining epithelium of the tube is unremarkable, apart from being attenuated by the tube dilation.  The tubal tumour shows mucinous differentiation.  Sections of the left cornu show no connection between the endometrial tumour and the left tubal tumour.
At the fimbrial end of the tube there is focal involvement of the surface epithelium by endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  Sectionsfrom the right and left parametrial soft tissue show occasional small subserosal deposits of metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
Sections of the right fallopian tube are unremarkable.  Sections of the right ovary show a simplecyst. The ovary is otherwise unremarkable.
C.  Sections show ovary with extensive involvement by a grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  This shows extensive mucinous differentiation.  A fibroma is also noted.  With immunostains the tumour cells are strongly oestrogen receptor and cytokeratin 7 positive, and also show patchy progesterone receptor positivity, but they are cytokeratin 20 negative.  The appearance and immunophenotype are most consistent with a primary endometrioid adenocarcinoma showing mucionous differentiation, rather than a metastatic mucinous carcinoma.   
D.  Sections show unremarkable fat.  No tumour is seen.  (ec)  
Comment:  It is most likely thatthe endometrioid adenocarcinomas of the endometrium and left ovary are separate primaries.  The left tubal tumour seems likely to be a metastasis from the left ovary but could also possibly be a further primary.  Sections of the left cornu show no connection between the endometrial tumour and the left tubal tumour.
The slides have also been viewed by Dr I Vivyan.
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Peritoneal biopsy:  Endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  
B.  Uterus, right tube and ovary and left tube:  
1.   Grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of endometrium, confined to endometrium.
2.   Grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of left fallopian tube.
3.   Focal subserosal deposits of endometrioid adenocarcinoma in right and left 
      parametria.
4.   Leiomyoma and adenomyosis. 
5.   Simple cyst right ovary.
C.  Left ovary:  Grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma with mucinous differentiation.
D.  Omental biopsy:  No tumour. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (16.7.63):
Immunostains for mismatch repair enzymes have been performed as requested.endometrial carcinoma (specimen B) and the ovarian carcinoma (specimen C) both show preserved nuclear staining for the mismatch repair enzymes MSH2, MSH6, MLH1 and PMS2.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MSH2, MSH6, MLH1 and PMS2 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI).
 



