Episode No:  31X984514J
319984.OCL

LAWTER, Hortense  
Lab No:  31X98451
Jaypore
WILLUNGA  TAS  6317
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  3/3/2018
Sex:  F
Collected: 27/11/2012 at 16:38
Location:  MACQUARIE WARD-ROSEBUD HOSPITAL
DR Jardi Adnyamathanha ERNESTO-BRUSCHKE
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
E/O lesions
Right breast 11 o'clock FNA code 3.
Left breast 10 o'clock FNA code 3.
+ R lateral margin suture on cavity, + right inferior margin suture on cavity.
Short superior, long lateral, medium medial.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left breast lesion suture long lateral medium medial short superior" consistsof an irregular piece of fibrofatty tissue with three sutures for orientation as above.  It measures 55mm (medial to lateral), 25mm (superficial to deep) and 15mm (superior to inferior).  A hook wire exiting from the superficial margin.  Deep margin is inked green, superior blue and inferior black.  The specimen is serially sectioned from lateral to medial into eleven slices.  On slices seven to nine there is an ill defined white and gritty lesion measuring 10mm from (medial to lateral), 5mm from (superior to inferior) and 5mm (superficial to deep).  The rest of the parenchyma is unremarkable.  The specimen is AE in 11 blocks according to the attached diagram. 
Blocks: 1 - slice one; 2 to10 - slices two to ten; 11 - shave of medial margin (slice eleven).
B.  Specimen labelled "Lateral shave right breast lesion suture on cavity side" consistsof fibrofatty tissue with one suture for orientation.  On cavity side it measures 40 x 20 x 5mm.  The cavity side is inked blue and the opposite side inked black.  The specimen is serially sectioned from superior to inferior into nine slices.  AE 9 blocks. 
  
C.  Specimen labelled "Right breast lesion long lateral short superior medium medial" consists of a fibrofatty piece of tissue with three sutures for orientation and a hook wire exiting from the superficial margin measuring 20mm (medial to lateral), 30mm (superior to inferior) and60mm (superficial to deep) margin.  Superior margin inked green, medial blue and lateral margin black.  The specimen is serially sectioned from superficial to deep margin into twelve slices.  Superficial margin slice one, deep margin slice twelve.   On sectioning and in slices three and four there are ill defined fibrous areas and in slices eight to ten there is an ill defined white and gritty area measuring 10mm (superficial to deep), 10mm (superior to inferior) and 11mm (medial to lateral).  Macroscopically the lesion abuts the superior margin.  The specimen is AE according to the attached diagram.  
Blocks: 1 - superficial margin (slice one); 2 to 11 - slices two to eleven; 12 - deep margin (slice twelve).  
  
D.  Specimen labelled "Inferior shave right breast lesion suture on cavity" consists of a fibrofatty piece of tissue with one suture on cavity side measuring 50 x 20 x 5mm.  The cavity side is inked blue, the opposite side black.  The specimen is serially sectioned from left to right and AE in 10 blocks.   (NF/ta 30/1/62)
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr I Allenbrand):
A.   Sections show a fibroadenoma.  The superior resection margin focally transects the lesion. There is no evidence of in situ or invasive malignancy.
B.   Sections show the edge of a fibroadenoma situated on the cavity side of the specimen.  There is no evidence of in situ or invasive malignancy.
C.   Sections showa fibroadenoma.  The superior resection margin focally transects the lesion.  There is no evidence of in situ or invasive malignancy.
D.   Sections of breast tissue show adenosis and fibroadenomatoid change.  There is no evidence of in situ or invasive malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.   Left breast:  Fibroadenoma.
B.   Lateral shave right breast:  Fibroadenoma.
C.   Right breast:  Fibroadenoma.
D.   Inferior shave right breast:  Fibroadenomatoid change.  

