
Episode No:  39R717620H
3967176.FBH

Fryson, CLEVELAND 
Lab No:  39R71762
Carrs Ridge
BUNBURY  SA  3659
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  24/3/2008
Sex:  M
Collected: 07/02/2014 at 15:23
Location:  SOUTH SURGICAL ASSESSMENT UNIT-BOWEN HOSPITAL
DR Brooks Pete Nicome
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
*******AMENDED REPORT (ALTERED STAGING) - SEE BELOW *******
CLINICAL:
Low rectal tumour with nil mets known.  Laparoscopic APR specimen.  HTN, ^chol, fattyliver smoker.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Anus and rectum", consists of an abdominoperineal resection, 290mm in length and 80mm circumference, with attached mesocolon to a width of 110mm.  The peritoneal reflection is 115mm from the distal margin.  The dentate line is 32mm from the distal margin.  There is an ulcerated tumour, 15 x 12mm, located immediately superior to the dentate line.  The tumour is 70mm below the peritoneal reflection.  The tumour is 26mm clear of the distal margin.  The tumourappears to abut, and possibly invades, the muscularis propria.  The tumour appears to be 20mm clear of the closest radial margin, however, the exact deepest point of tumour penetration is difficult to identify macroscopically.  A skin covered polyp, 5mm across is seen over the anal skin.  Two tan mucosal polyps, each 5mm across, are seen within the rectum, lying 10mm from the dentate line and at least 25mm clear of the distal margin.  No other focal lesions are identified.  Lymph nodes were difficult to palpate in the mesocolon.  
Blocks: 1 - proximal margin; 2 - distal margin; 3 - tumour with radial margin; 4 and 5 - paired sections full thickness tumour with radial margin; 6 - tumour; 7 - skin papule; 8 - two rectal mucosal polyps; 9 - apical lymph node; 10 - four possible lymph nodes below peritoneal reflection; 11 to 13 - four lymph nodes in each block above peritoneal reflection; 14 - five lymph nodes above peritoneal reflection.  
The mesocolon was re-examined following delayed fixation for lymph nodes.  No further lymph nodes were identified.  Blocks 15 - fibrous area extending adjacent to tumour into perirectal muscle; 16 - perirectal fat below peritoneal reflection; 17-20- perirectal/pericolic fat above peritoneal reflection. (TO: KS;RH/vo 12.4.64) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reportedby A/Prof J Coots and Dr J Bingert):

Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:  Rectum. The tumour is situated at the anorectal junction, immediately above dentate line with microscopic extension beneath the anal squamous mucosa inferiorly and involving rectal mucosa superiorly. 
Maximum tumour diameter: Approximately 20mm, microscopically. 
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  26mm (distal)
Tumour perforation:  No
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma 
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate.
Local invasion
pT2	Invasion into muscularis propria. Carcinoma invades deeply into muscularis propria. Deeper levels have been examined and the carcinoma falls just short of invading through the muscularis propria and into adjacent skeletal muscle.
(Dr J Mclaughlan has also seen representative sectionsand concurs that the tumour falls short of a definite T3 classification).
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:  Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not involved
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  11mm
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:  Fourteen (14)	
Number of lymph nodes involved:  One (1)	
pN1	Metastasis in 1 - 3 regional lymph nodes.
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Both the rectal polyps are hyperplastic polyps.
An incidental benign intradermal naevus is seen in the perianal skin.
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Not applicable.
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germlinemutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
pT2     pN1     pMx     R0
DIAGNOSIS:
ABDOMINOPERINEAL RESECTION - RECTAL ADENOCARCINOMA.
AMMENDED REPORT: (A/Prof J Magos 21/4/64)
Following presentation at the Colorectal Meeting by Dr J Warntz, the recent past history of a rectal carcinoid tumour was realised. In view of this, neuroendocrine markers were performed on the solitary lymph node metastasis and these were found to be positive, consistent with metastaticcarcinoid tumour (low grade neuroendocrine tumour) rather than rectal adenocarcinoma. 
The staging of the current rectal adenocarcinoma is therefore classified as pN0. 

Dr J Panak has discussed this amendment to the staging with the clinical team. 




