 3933099.ZME
SCHLEMMER, Dorthey
39K30999

Last edited : 7/4/2064		Page: 2

CLINICAL:
Ascending colon carcinoma.  AF, HT, diabetes. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy", consists of a hemicolectomy measuring 490mm in length which includes a length of terminal ileum 90mm.  50mm from the ileocaecal valve and 140mm from the proximal resection margin and 190mm from the distal resection margin is a circumferential ulcerated obstructing tumour which occupies a length of bowel 65mm in length at its longest point. The serosa appears puckered and tethered in this area.  The cut surface reveals the cream tumour extends through the muscularis propria into the mesenteric fat and appears to extend to the serosal surface.  The bowel proximal to the tumour appears grossly dilated with the wall thinned. Distal to the tumour three ? polyps, ? mucosal folds are identified up to 6mm which are all well clear of the resection margin. An appendix is included in the specimen and measures 17mm in length with a maximum external diameter of 10mm. The serosa appears unremarkable. Several diverticulum are identified throughout the colon.  All appear unremarkable. A section of omentum is also adherent to the serosal surface measuring 250 x 130x 15mm.  Numerous lymph nodes are identified in the mesenteric fat.  A number of lymph nodes appear macroscopically involved with tumour.  
Block 1- resection margins; 2-5 - representative tumour; 6 - tumour to uninvolved mucosa; 7 - polyps; 8 - appendix; 9 -apical node; 10 - representative involved nodes; 11 - one lymph node bisected; 12 & 13 - representative involved nodes; 14 - further lymph nodes; 15 - representative omentum; 16 - reserve block.  Representative sections in 16 blocks.  (TO: SZ;EY/ec 19.12.63) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr J Tourville) 
The colonic tumour is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma showing focal mucinous differentiation. A synoptic report for colorectal carcinoma follows:

Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour: ascending colon. 	
Maximum tumour diameter: 65mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 140mm
Tumour perforation: No
Microscopic Description
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Seventeen	
Number of lymph nodes involved: Four
pN2	Metastases in 4 or more regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Present 
Perineural invasion
Not identified
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pM0	No distant metastasis
Background abnormalities/other comments
The polyps seen macroscopically appear to represent prominent mucosal folds.
The appendix shows fibrous obliteration of the tip, patchy mild acute inflammation and a faecolith.

Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Not applicable
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

pTNM Stage (TNM 7th Edition): IIIB pT3N2aMx	


DIAGNOSIS:
Right hemicolectomy: 
65mm pTNM Stage IIIB moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the ascending colon.
Lymphovascular space invasion is present.
Metastatic carcinoma is present in four of seventeen lymph nodes (4/7).
Markers of microsatellite instability show a low risk of microsatellite instability.







