
 4526739.VPB
Mabane, NATISHA
45H67398

Last edited : 15/4/2064		Page: 2
***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: HER-2 (15.4.2064)

CLINICAL:
Left upper lobectomy - PHX breast cancer.  ?primary lunch cancer. 
1.  Leftupper lobe
2.  Left hilar lymph nodes
3. Lymph nodes pulmonary ligaments
4. Lymph nodes aorta pulmonary window
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left upper lobe", consists of a lobectomy weighing 142g (pre inflation) and measuring 180 x 100x 50mm.  The hilum measures 50 x 30mm in area and contains three lymph nodes measuring from 5 to 7mm in maximum dimension.  The pleural surface is predominantly smooth and shiny. Focally, over area 40 x 25mm, the pleural surface appears dull and puckered.  This area is approximately 45mm from the hilum.  On sectioning there is a peripheral well circumscribed tan necrotic tumour, 25 x 22 x 22mm, which abuts the pleura.  The tumour is 40mm from the closest surgical margin (hilum) and is 7mm from the closest main bronchus.  Elsewhere the lung parenchyma appears unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1- bronchial surgical margin; 2 - vascular surgical margin; 3 - lymph nodes at the hilum; 5 to 8 - tumour (7 and 8 closest pleural margin; 6 - tumour and closest bronchus);9 representative normal lung; 10- closest surgical margin at hilum to tumour.
B.  Specimen labelled "Hilar lymph node", consists of four lymph nodes measuring 3, 7, 12 and 15mm in maximum dimension.  Specimen AE 3 blocks
Blocks: 1 - largest lymph node serially sectioned; 2 - lymph node serially sectioned; 3 - two nodes bisected. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Inferior pulmonary ligament lymph node", consists of a lymph node measuring 18mm in maximum dimension.  Specimen serially sectioned and AE 1 block. 
D.  Specimenlabelled "Left aorta pulmonary lymph node", consists of a lymph node measuring 5mm in maximum dimension.  Specimen bisected and AE 1 block. 
(PE/vo 2.3.64) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr L Cheirs)
A.  The 25mm left upper lobe tumour is a poorly differentiatedlarge cell carcinoma. The carcinoma has a pushing margin and consists of sheets of moderately to highly pleomorphic carcinoma cells surrounding central foci of necrosis. The carcinoma shows patchy weak to moderate staining for ER with indefinite TTF-1 staining. The overall features favour metastatic large cell carcinoma with features in keeping with primary breast origin. 
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR LUNG CARCINOMA
1.  Specimen type: Lobectomy
2.  Topography: Left upper lobe
3.Tumour location: Peripheral
4.  Tumour size: 25mm
5.  Tumour type: Poorly differentiated large cell carcinoma
6.  Histological grade: Poorly differentiated
7.  Vessel invasion:
8.  Perineural invasion:
9.  Pleural involvement: Tumour abuts the visceral pleura, which shows reactive fibrosis, but does not appear to breach it
10.  Bronchial resection margin: Free of tumour
Minimum distance between tumour and bronchial resection margin: 7mm (macroscopic).
11.  Vascular resection margin: Free of tumour
12.  Chest wall: Not included
13.  Non-neoplastic lung: Reactive inflammation, intraalveolar histiocytes and congestion.
14.  Lymph nodes:
Lymph nodes from main resection specimen: No evidence of malignancy in three hilar lymph nodes (0/3). 
15.  Immunohistochemistry: 
Tumour cells positive for: Cam5.2, CK7 (patchy weak), ER (focal weak to moderate)
Tumour cells negative for: PR and TTF-1.
There is patchy TTF-1 positivity at the edge of some tumour nests, which is favoured to represent staining of entrapped pulmonary cells.
Representativeslides seen with Dr Julian CHIPMAN.
B.  Sections of the hilar lymph node show reactive anthrasilicosis. There is no evidence of malignancy (0/4).
C.  Sections of theinferior pulmonary ligament lymph node show reactive anthrasilicosis. There is no evidence of malignancy (0/1).
D.  Sections of the left aorta pulmonary lymph node show reactive anthrasilicosis. There is no evidence of malignancy (0/1). 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left upper lobe: Favour metastatic large cell carcinoma with features most in keeping with primary breast origin. Tumour abuts the pleural surface. Surgical margins appear clear. No evidence of malignancy in three hilar lymph nodes (0/3). 

B.  Hilar lymph node: Anthrasilicosis. No evidence of malignancy (0/4). 

C.  Inferior pulmonary ligament lymph node: Anthrasilicosis. No evidence of malignancy (0/1). 

D.  Left aorta pulmonary lymph node: Anthrasilicosis. No evidence of malignancy (0/1). 


***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: HER-2 (15.4.2064)
Dr L Vosmus
As requested by Dr MONICA Tinn, HER-2 immunohistochemistry was performed on the tumour. There was patchy mild cytoplasmic staining in areas, however, no convincing membrane staining was seen and the stain is interpreted as NEGATIVE.




