
Episode No:  41E937867X
411937.XRS

Hipp, WENDIE 
Lab No:  41E93786
Calow
PENGUIN    1429
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  13/11/1997
Sex:  F
Collected: 23/01/2014 at 08:13
Location:  Radiation Oncology-DENTAL HEALTH SERVICES VICTORIA
DR Dannie Kendrick BARRANCA
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (1.3.64):


CLINICAL:
Additional clinical history from Dr Cappleman - biopsy from DONNYBROOK HOSPITAL's Hospital reporting signet ring cell adenocarcinoma (linitis plastica).  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Total radical gastrectomy + splenectomy" and consists of a total gastrectomy measuring 140mm along the lesser curve and 250mm along the greater curve, with attached omentum 270 x 160 x 10mm and spleen 100 x 80 x 40mm.  The serosal surface of the stomach has a pale appearance and there is an area of serosal retraction on the lesser curve, 40mm from the distal margin and 120mm from the proximal margin.  The mucosal surface is haemorrhagic with linear ulcers and the stomach wall is diffusely thickened by firm pale tumour, up to 15mm thick.  The omental fat attached to the greater curve is firm and nodular.  The external appearance and cut surfaces of the spleen are unremarkable.  The proximal margin of the stomach is inked blue, distal margin black.    : 1 to 4 - proximal margin AE in LS; 5 to 7 - distal margin AE in LS; 9 - representative sections from cardia; 11 - representative sections from body; 11 - representative sections from antrum; 12 - representative sections from greater curve; 13 - representative sections of lesser curve; 14 & 15 - lymph nodes from lesser curve; 16 - lymph node from greater curve; 17 & 18 - representative sections ofomentum; 19 - splenic perihilar fat; 20 - spleen.  (TE/ta 25/3/64)  
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr M Mountain): 
Sections from the cardia, body, antrum, greater curve and lesser curve show extensive involvement of the stomach wall by a poorly differential adenocarcinoma of diffuse type.  The tumour consists of small groups, cords and single cells which are present extensively throughout the mucosa, submucosa, muscle layer and subserosa.  The cells have large, moderately pleomorphic nuclei and a variable amount of pale eosinophilic cytoplasm.  Numerous signet ring cells are noted.  Tumour extends to the serosal surface of the stomach and also extensively infiltrates fat attached to the lesser curve and omental fat attached to the greater curve.  Focal lymphovascular invasion is noted in the submucosa of the body.  Foci of perineural invasion are also identified in the stomach wall. 
There is metastatic tumour in six out of eight lymph nodes which were found in fat attached to the lesser curve, and in one out of fournodes which were found in omental fat attached to the greater curve.  
Sections from the proximal margin show a short length of squamous lined oesophageal wall.  There is adenocarcinoma involving the full thickness of the wall of the distal oesophagus and undermining overlying normal surface squamous epithelium, but the proximal margin appears free of tumour.  Tumour is 3mm from the proximal margin at the closest point.  
Sections of the distal margin show small intestinal wall including Brunner's glands.  No tumour is seen in the small intestinal wall and the distal margin is well clear of tumour.  
Remaining uninvolved gastric mucosa shows changes of a chronic gastritis with intestinal metaplasia.  Stains for Helicobacter pylori will be performed and a supplementary report issued.   
Sections of the spleen and splenic hilar fat show no abnormality.  
DIAGNOSIS:  
Total gastrectomy and spleen:  Poorly differentiated gastric adenocarcinoma of diffuse type, with lymph node metastases (7/12).   pT4a   pN3a
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (1.3.64):
No Helicobacter is identified with giemsa stains.
  

