 090968.YGO
Surface, Cassi Hyman
09A96892

Last edited : 30/3/2064		Page: 2

CLINICAL:
Prev Whipples for pancreatic adeno Ca.  Now liver mets.  R lobe of liver.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Liver resection" consists of a right hepatectomy measuring 160 x 110 x 70mm.  There is an area of serosal puckering 10 x 5 x 5mm.  On sectioning the area of serosal puckering appears poorly demarcated with a solid consistency.  A second ill defined firm pale area is identified.  It measures 10 x 5mm.  Itis located more than 20mm from the resection margin.  The rest of the parenchyma is unremarkable.  Representative sections.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - area of serosal puckering; 3 & 4 - secondill defined solid area; 5 - liver, other area.  (TO: CY; SG/rt 25.3.64)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr A Gaal):
Sections of the described area of serosal puckering show a deposit of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.  In the sections this measures 9mm in main diameter.  It consists of crowded glands lined by cells with large, pleomorphic nuclei and a moderate amount of eosinophilic cytoplasm.  The tumour extends to just beneath the serosal surface of the liver and there is a heavy associated mixed acute and chronic inflammatory cell reaction.  The features are consistent with metastatic ductal adenocarcinoma of pancreas.  No definite lymphovascular invasion is identified.  Sections of the other described poorly defined pale area show a second deposit of similar metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.  In the sections this measures 8mm in main diameter.There is associated dense fibrosis and a heavy mixed acute and chronic inflammatory cell reaction.  No definite lymphovascular invasion is identified.  deposits are well away from the hepatic resection margin.
A section of liver away from the tumour deposits shows mild steatosis and a mild infiltrateof chronic inflammatory cells in portal tracts; these changes are non-specific.
DIAGNOSIS:
Right lobe of liver:  Two deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma.  

