Episode No:  20S659873R
2076598.UJR

DURETTE, Shelby 
Lab No:  20S65987
Lake Potomac
DAMPIER  Victoria  2049
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  6/12/2004
Sex:  M
Collected:22/01/2014 at 15:47
Location:  PaLMS-MARYBOROUGH DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICE (MARYBOROUGH)
DR COLIN HAUSNER
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (14.4.64):


CLINICAL:
Right temporal lobe lesion.  B/g GBM - right parietal tumour resected Oct 2063, followed by adjuvant XRTand chemotherapy new lesion detected on MRI for investigation of focal seizures (right facial twitching).  New GBM.  Unusual appearance intra-operatively.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right temporal lesion", consists of a fresh pale firm tissue measuring 10 x 8 x 4mm.  2 smears done, rest for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
High grade glioma possible component of gliosarcoma.  
Phone result to Dr Johnathon and Dr G Paynes 
By A/Prof G Mccalebb, Dr G Junge and Dr G Arbon at 16:20 on 22.01.14
B.  Specimen labelled "Right temporal lesion", consists of two nodular tumoral lesions 10 x 10 x 10mm and 20 x 20 x 15mm.  The largest lesion has a piece of attached dura 30 x 20 x 1mm.  Thecut surface is solid white and smooth with areas of haemorrhage.  AE.
Blocks: 1 to 5 - large lesion; 6 - small lesion.
C.  Specimen labelled "Deep temporal tissue ?GBM", consists of an irregular piece of friable tissue measuring 10 x 5 x 5mm.  AE 1 block. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Arachnoid thickening", consists of a piece of membranous tissue 7 x 4 x 1mm.  AE 1 block. 
(TO: VD;KN/vo 23.3.64) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr G Momplaisir):
A.  Sections show tumour tissue.  No normal brain is seen.  The tumour is cellular and consists mainly of spindle cells with elongated nuclei and eosinophilic cytoplasm, in haphazard short fascicles.  There are also foci where the tumour cells have more plump atypical nuclei and better fined cytoplasm.  Mitoses are present, including atypical forms.  The features are consistent with a gliosarcoma with predominant sarcomatous component.    
B.Sections show pieces of tumour tissue.  The larger piece has overlying dura.  No normal brain tissue is seen.  The tumour is similar to specimen A.  It consists mainly of spindle cells in short, haphazard fascicles.  Mitoses are frequent,numbering up to 22 per 10 HPF, and some atypical mitoses are noted.  Some tumour cells have a single, prominent nucleolus.  The cells are predominantly spindle shaped but there are patchy areas of more plump, pleomorphic, atypical cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and better defined cell borders.  Some binucleate and multinucleate tumour cells are also noted.  There are patchy foci of tumour necrosis.  Tumour abuts and focally invades into and through the overlying dura (block B4).  
Reticulin stains show that most of the tumour is reticulin rich but a minor component has more scant reticulin.  The features are most consistent with a gliosarcoma.  The sarcomatous component is the predominant spindle cell tumour which is reticulin rich, while the high grade glioma (astrocytic) component has the more plump, pleomorphic cells and scant reticulin.  The high grade glioma component also shows more prominent and extensive GFAP positivity.  There is a merging of the glial and sarcomatous components.  A p53 immunostain is negative.  A Ki-67 stain shows a high proliferation index, estimated at around 80%.  
The histology of the previous tumour (20S65987 B&C) has been reviewed.  Further stains are pending on that specimen and a supplementary report will follow.  
IDH1 immunostaining and MGMT promoter methylation testing was done on the previous tumour and has not been repeated.  
C.  Sections show a piece of greymatter and white matter with some reactive astrocytosis, and also some tumour tissue.  The tissue appears to include a pial surface and subpial accumulation of tumour cells is noted.  
D.  Sections show a piece of tumour tissue.  The tumour is cellular and predominantly composed of spindle cells.  
DIAGNOSIS: 
A.  Right temporal:  Gliosarcoma.
B.  Right temporal:  Gliosarcoma (WHO grade 4) with predominant sarcomatous component.
C.  Deep temporal tissue:  Involvement by gliosarcoma.  
D.  Arachnoid thickening:  Involvement by gliosarcoma.  
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (14.4.64):
The histology of the previous right parietal tumour (20S65987) has been reviewed and further reticulin and GFAP stains have been performed.  The previous tumour lacks the spindle cell appearance of the present tumour and reticulin is only around blood vessels, not individual cells.  Also, it is generally GFAP positive.  The previous tumour is still considered to be a glioblastoma (WHO grade 4); no sarcomatous component is identified.

