Episode No:  68W939710M
688939.TEB

Niten, BILL 
Lab No:  68W93971
West Linden Church
KORUMBURRA  Northern Territory  4107
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  4/10/1997
Sex:  M
Collected: 03/09/2012 at 09:24
Location:  Pathology West-ROBINVALE DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICES - MANANGATANG CAMPUS
DR BURTON Duane MOIR
Distribution:  DR Penhall, DR STEWART,  FILE-COPY

CLINICAL:
Transverse colon cancer.  Extended right hemicolectomy and small bowel. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Patient details checked by XU
Specimen labelled "Transverse colon", consists of a hemicolectomy specimen in three pieces. The largest piece consists of terminal ileum 50mm in length and up to 20mm in diameter attached to caecum and ascending colon 280mm in length.  The caecum measures 50mm in diameter and the ascending colon 30mm.  The appendix is identified and measures 110mm in length and up to 7mm in diameter. Two separate segments of small bowel are also present, measuring 120mm in length and 15mm in diameter and 50mm in length and 10mm in diameter. 
Within the main specimen, the attached mesocolon measures approximately 300 x 100 x 30mm and shows fat wrapping around the ascending colon. On opening, an ulcerated, sessile polypoid tumour 36 x 18 x 7mm ispresent 35mm from the distal resection margin.  On section, the tumour extends into muscularis propria but not beyond it.  The ascending colon shows polyps up to 9mm in diameter.  A 15mm lipoma is present 20mm from the ileocaecal valve.  The mucosa of the terminal ileum is unremarkable. 
Block 1 - proximal resection margin; 2 - distal resection margin; 3-5 - representative tumour; 6 - tumour reserve block; 7 -one ascending colon polyp; 8 - one ascending colon polyp; 9 - ascending colon lipoma; 10 - representative uninvolved colonic mucosa; 11 - mucosa terminal ileum; 12 - representative appendix; 13 - resection margin, separate longer piece of small bowel; 14 - representativelonger separate segment of small bowel; 15 - resection margin smaller separate segment of small bowel; 16 - representative small section of small bowel; 17 - apical node; 18-21 - mesocolonic lymph nodes. (KP/ec  11.5.62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr Z Bruckmeier) 
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour: Transverse colon	
Maximum tumour diameter:    36mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:    35mm
Tumour perforation:   No

Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Extracellular pools of mucin are seen in about a quarter of the tumour.
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not applicable.
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin: Not applicable
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: 6
Number of lymph nodes involved: 0	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Adenomas: One tubular adenoma with low grade dysplasia is present.
Synchronous carcinomas (complete a separate form for each cancer): Not applicable
Ulcerative colitis: Absent.
Crohn's disease:Absent.
Other:A submucosal lipoma is noted in the ascending colon.
Pigmented macrophages are noted in the mucosa and submucosa.
The appendix and terminal ileum show no significant abnormality.
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvent therapy - Not applicable
Grade 0 (complete response) - No viable cancer cells
Grade 1 (moderate response) - Single cells or small groups of cancer cells
Grade 2 (minimal response) - Residual cancer outgrown by fibrosis
Grade 3 (poor response) - Minimal or no tumour kill; extensive residual cancer
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
pT3 pN0 pMx R0
CONCLUSION
Transverse colon (extended right hemicolectomy): Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma invading through muscularis propria, clear of margins, no metastases in 6 regional lymph nodes.
 

