
 471143.BCD
BLUTO, Golden
47D14300

Last edited : 13/11/2062		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Large localised renal tumour.  R kidney.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Patient details checked by NK
Specimen labelled "Right kidney" consists of a kidney 120mm (superior to inferior), 65mm (side to side) and 60mm (anteriorto posterior) with attached perinephric fat ranging from 5mm to 45mm in thickness, weighing 590g together.  A segment of ureter is present, 65 x 4mm.  Sectioning shows a large nodular tumour measuring 78 x 75 x 50mm involving the mid andinferior thirds of the kidney.  The tumour has a heterogenous, predominately solid, tan grey / brownish cut surface.  It abuts the capsule in most areas.  The inferior sinus fat may be involved by tumour.  The renal vein, pelvis and ureter are unremarkable.  A 12mm simple cyst is present at the superior pole.  No adrenal gland or lymph nodes are identified.  The tumour appears at least 10mm clear of the hilar fat margin.  
Blocks: 1 - ureteric and vascular margins; 2 - anterior of tumour; 3 - inferior tumour; 4 - posterior tumour; 5 - tumour and inferior sinus; 6 - tumour and adjacent kidney; 7 & 8 - tumour; 9 - tumour reserve block for tissue bank; 10 - simple cyst; 11 - non neoplastic kidney; 12-pelvis and proximal ureter.   (HH/ta 8/11/62)  
  
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr K Burkowski): 
Sections show a conventional (clear cell) renal cell carcinoma, Fuhrman Grade 2. 
The tumour consists of groups and trabeculae of cells with medium sized, moderately pleomorphic vesicular nuclei and abundant clear cytoplasm.  Mitoses are infrequent.  There is focal tumour necrosis.  The tumour comes close to but does not invade the renal sinus fat.  The overlying renal capsule is also intact.  No lymphovascular invasion is identified.  The renal artery and veinat the hilum are free of tumour.  Sections of the renal pelvis and ureter are essentially unremarkable.  A section of the described cyst at the superior pole confirms that this is a benign cyst.  Sections of kidney away from the tumour show some mild benign nephrosclerosis but are otherwise unremarkable.  
The Leibovich Score for the tumour is 4 (pT2a, pNx, size less than 10cm, nuclear grade 2, histologic tumour necrosis present).  
DIAGNOSIS:  
Right kidney:  Conventional (clear cell) renal cell carcinoma, Fuhrman Grade 2.  pT2a. 

