
Episode No:  90G9737807
9029737.WBS

Giffith, Penni 
Lab No:  90G97378
Yalkin
LAKES ENTRANCE  Victoria  5033
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  11/10/2000
Sex:  F
Collected: 06/02/2014 at 13:30
Location:  ACUTECARE WARD-MONASH MEDICAL CENTRE - MOORABBIN CAMPUS
PRO Williams AIDEN Luczkowiak
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
HISTORY                    
CRC metastatic Ca. Peritonectomy, right hemicolectomy, splenectomy, cholecystectomy, SB resection, anterior resection, uterus, omentectomy. Sigmoid colon, gallbladder, right diaphragm, peritoneum.
MACROSCOPIC              
A. "SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, RIGHT COLON, OMENTUM, UTERUS, SMALL BOWEL, PERITONEAL DISEASE". 
Gallbladder. A gallbladder 115mm in length and 35mm in external diameter. The serosal surface is smooth and shiny with no obvious tumour deposit. No cystic duct lymph node is seen. On opening, the gallbladderis sealed with bile and there is no gallstones seen. The mucosal is green, velvety. 
Spleen and attached omentum. The spleen is measuring 90x60x40mm with attached omentum measuring up to 300x100x10mm. The spleen weighs 90g onits own. The capsular surface has a fine ?granular appearance with some areas of disrupted capsule measuring up to 25mm in maximal extent. On sectioning of the spleen area there is no mass lesions identified. On inspection and section of the omentum, there are multiple haemorrhagic ragged areas but no firm, pale suspicious areas identified. 
(4 & 5 representative spleen with disrupted capsule; 6-10 representative omentum).
Uterus with peritoneum Pouch of Douglas and section of rectum. The described specimen weighs 220g in total consisting of a portion of anterior peritoneum measuring 200x200x7mm with uterus measuring 30mm from medial to lateral, 50mm from superior to inferior and20mm from anterior to posterior. There is attached bilateral fallopian tube and ovaries. The right fallopian tube measures 60mm in length and 7mm in external maximum diameter. The right ovary measures 20x12x10mm. The left fallopian tubemeasures 60mm in length and 7mm in maximum external diameter and the left ovary measures 20x8x7mm. The ?surgical margin is ragged and measures 25mm in maximum extent. In the Pouch of Douglas there are multiple nodules measuring up to 6mm in maximal extent. There is a rectum attached measuring 80mm in length and 40mm in open circumference. On opening the mucosa is unremarkable. Perirectal fat margin inked black. The anterior peritoneum shows some firm nodules on the surface measuring up to 5mm in maximum extent. 
(11 anterior peritoneum nodule; 12 & 13 Pouch of Douglas nodules; 14-16 LS cervix to fundus uterus; 17 TS and LS of right fallopian tube; 18 representative LS right ovary; 19 TS and LS representative left fallopian tube; 20 LS left ovary; 21 & 22 LS resection margins [21 distal; 22 proximal]; 23 representative mucosa; 24 & 25 representative 40mm ?tumour deposits, three lymph nodes in perirectal fat; 26 two possiblenodes).
Soft tissue mass with ?anal skin. A segment of ?bowel 20mm in length and 30mm in diameter with attached soft tissue mass measuring 50x30x15mm. 
(27 LS lumen; 28 representative TS of ?tumour deposit and soft tissue mass).
There is a segment of large bowel measuring 500mm in length and varying diameter with some thin dilated areas up to 120mm in open circumference. On opening, the mucosa is unremarkable. (what has just been described is the area of discontinuous small bowel). There is a longer continuous segment of small bowel measuring 800mm in length with caecum attached and ?anastomotic site. There is an appendix present measuring 80mm in length and 7mm in maximal external diameter. On opening of the ?anastomotic site in the caecum, there is an eosinophilic tumour extending to the wall. The eosinophilic portion measures 40mm in maximal extent. There is attached omentum connected to the portion of bowel with ?anastomosis. The segment of bowel measures 250mm in length and 40mm in diameter. The attached omentum measures up to 190x210x10mm. There are multiple tumour deposits in this portion of the omentum measuring 15mm in maximum extent. On opening of this ?transverse colon there are pedunculated polyps identified and a lesion 25mm in maximal extent. The lesion is located 110mm from one resection margin and 120mm from the anastomosis and tumour site. The tipof the appendix is hidden and involve in the mesenteric route ?metastatic mass. There are multiple diffuse nodules on the mesenteric surface and bowel wall. The small bowel mucosa appears slightly oedematous but is otherwise unremarkable. 
(29 LS distal appendix extending into fibrous ?tumour in mesentery; 30 TS appendix; 31 & 32 representative tumour nodule in omentum; 33 & 34 representative mesenteric nodules; 35 representative nodule in bowel wall; 36 representative large fibrous ?metastatic deposit in mesentery; 37 & 38 LS resection margins of ? transverse colon; 39 representative polyp from ?transverse colon; 40 sessile tumour in transverse colon; 41 representative mucosa transverse colon; 42 representative anastomosis; 43 & 44 paired tumour with ?anastomosis; 45 tumour reserved block; 46 representative tumour; 47 representative mucosa of small bowel; 48 & 49 representative sections of mesenteric area of bowel adhesion).
(50 five possible nodes; 51 four possible nodes).
Peritoneum. Fragments of peritoneum with fatty tissue attached, measuring in aggregate 70x60x30mm. There is a cystic ---hemorrhaging, petechial hemorrhaging, and ?some small pale firm nodules which have been sampled.
(52 & 53 representative sections). RS (M-53/EA/cy)
MICROSCOPIC(Dr X Chism)
Sections of gallbladder show features of mild chronic cholecystitis. There is no evidence of malignancy in the gallbladder wall.  The representative sections of spleen are unremarkable.  Sections of the omentum attached to the spleen show an  omental deposit of metastatic, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with focal mucinous features.  Two small omental lymph nodes show no involvement.  
Sections of the anterior peritoneal nodule confirm multiple deposits of similar moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma involving the peritoneal surface, and with invasion into the underlying adipose tissue.  Associated lymphovascular invasion is noted.  Several similar nodules of metastatic adenocarcinoma are confirmed within the Pouch of Douglas, including peritoneal surface involvement and invasion into the underlying adipose tissue.  Lymphovascular involvement is also noted in this site.  
Sections of cervix show an extensive deposit of moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma invading into the outer wall of cervix and extending to the outer wall of the lower uterine segment. The endometrium appears atrophic.  The myometrium and uterine serosa elsewhere are unremarkable.  
Sections of the right fallopian tube show a deposit of moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinomainvolving the fimbrial end of the fallopian tube.  This deposit shows some mucinous features.  The right ovary is largely replaced by metastatic adenocarcinoma.  Sections of the left fallopian tube and left ovary show no involvement.  
The proximal and distal margins of resection of the rectum show no involvement. There is an extensive deposit of adenocarcinoma within the perirectal fat, which reaches a diathermied surgical margin over a broad front.  A singleperirectal lymph node shows no involvement.  
Sections of the anal squamous mucosa show no atypia.  Metastatic carcinoma is confirmed within the soft tissue mass adjacent to the anal mucosa.
Sections of appendixshow that the lumen and wall of the mid and proximal appendix are obliterated by moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with some areas of mucinous differentiation. The carcinoma extends to involve the serosal surface of themesoappendix.  Lymphovascular involvement is seen in this area.  The distal appendix is not involved, and shows unremarkable appendiceal mucosa.  
The resection margins of the ? transverse colon show no involvement.  There are multiple deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma within the omentum and mesentery of the right hemicolectomy, as well as in the serosa, muscularis propria and submucosa of the small intestine.  
The polyp in the transverse colon is a tubular adenoma with low grade epithelial dysplasia.  The sessile tumour described within the transverse colon is an area of intramucosal adenocarcinoma arising from an adjacent tubular adenoma.  Sections of the ? anastomosis site show moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with areas of mucinous differentiation, which invades through the full thickness of the colonic wall into pericolic fibroadipose tissue.  The representative section of the mesenteric area of bowel adhesion shows involvement by adenocarcinoma.  There are other foci of adenocarcinoma noted as deposits within the mesentery of the right hemicolectomy.  One ofseven lymph nodes identified from the right hemicolectomy specimen contains metastatic adenocarcinoma, and this metastatic deposit shows areas of signet ring cell change.  
Representative sections of the separate fragments ofperitoneum show a small deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma.  
DIAGNOSIS             
SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, RIGHT COLON, OMENTUM, UTERUS, SMALL BOWEL, PERITONEAL DISEASE :
-MODERATELY TO POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA, WITH FOCAL AREAS OF MUCINOUS AND SIGNET RING CELL DIFFERENTIATION, INVOLVING THE ANASTOMOTIC SITE IN THE RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY, THE MESENTERY OF THE RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY, THE OMENTUM, ANTERIOR PERITONEUM, POUCH OF DOUGLAS, OUTER WALL OF CERVIX, RIGHT FALLOPIAN TUBE, RIGHT OVARY, PERIRECTAL FAT, PERIANAL TISSUE, AND APPENDIX.  
-ONE OF SEVEN LYMPH NODES FROM THE RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY SPECIMEN IS INVOLVED BY METASTATIC, POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA.
-TWO OMENTAL LYMPH NODES AND ONE PERIRECTAL LYMPH NODE SHOW NO INVOLVEMENT.
13/4/64 ank
Supplementary report: 

Immunostains for MSI proteins (Wachovia Corporation KALAMUNDA HOSPITAL Lab; block: 43)
MLH1: Positive (normal) staining of tumour cell nuclei.
PMS2: Positive staining of tumour cell nuclei.
MSH2: Positive staining of tumour cell nuclei.
MSH6: Positive staining of tumour cell nuclei.
Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme. 
Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype. 
The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible. 
5/6/64 ank

