 1136559.COY
RAMBO, Kai
11I65591

Last edited : 14/9/2062		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Ultralow anterior resection.  Anterior polypoid mid rectal cancer.  T3N0 on MRI.
[1. Ultralow anterior resection, 2. Distal donut, 3. Rectal tumour (free specimen)].
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Ultralow anterior resection" consists of an anterior resection comprised of terminal ileum and rectum.  It measures 300mm from proximal to distal and up to 30mm in maximum diameter.  The segment of rectum below the peritoneal reflection measures 45mm in length.  The circumferential margin is inked black and the distal margin green.  The external surface is unremarkable.  On sectioning and on the peritoneal reflection there is a fungating and ulcerated tumour measuring 75mm from proximal to distal and 60mm in maximum diameter.  It is located 35mm from the distal margin.  On sectioning, the tumour hasa maximum thickness of 10mm and macroscopically invades through the wall into the rectal fat.  The tumour is located 30mm from the radial margin.  Apart from the tumour several polyps are identified ranging from 2 to 4mm.  
Blocks:  1 - proximal margin; 2 - distal margin; 3 - tumour with nearest left lateral radial margin; 4 - tumour with proximal colon; 5 - tumour with distal rectum; 6 - tumour; 7 - tumour; 8 - tumour (reserved block); 9 - four polyps; 10 to 15 - possible lymph nodes.
B.  Specimen labelled "Distal donut" a donut of colonic mucosa 20 x 10 x 5mm.  AE one block. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Rectal tumour" a polyp 20 x 10 x 10mm.  The cut surface is solid and tan.  AE 2 blocks.   (PQ/cc 7/2/62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr E Ochiltree): 
A.

COLORECTAL CARCINOMA PROFORMA

Site of tumour:  Based in mid rectum with focal extension to lower rectum	
Maximum tumour diameter:   75mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:   35mm (distal)
Tumour perforation:     No
For rectal tumours
Relationof tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection:	 Astride 
Type
Mucinous adenocarcinoma
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not involved
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin: 17mm (left lateral)
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: 15	
Number of lymph nodes involved: 0	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
The invasive tumour is arising from a tubulovillous adenoma. Hyperplastic polyps are also present.
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
pT3pN0     pMX     R0
B. Sections show large bowel with no evidence of malignancy.
C. Sections show a tubulovillous adenoma with low grade dysplasia. There is no convincing evidence of high-grade dysplasia or invasive malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS
A. Ultralow anterior resection: 
- Moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma invading perirectal fat, margins clear
- 15 lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy.
B. Distal donut: no evidence of malignancy
C. Rectal tumour: tubulovillous adenoma with low grade dysplasia	

