 6421262.HEN
FALKER, Marlena
64F12622

Last edited : 19/3/2063		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Colon tumour on ileocaecal valve.  Right hemicolectomy.  Bilateral multiple liver metastases.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy", consists of a segment of bowel comprising of terminal ileum, caecum and part of ascending colon.  The terminal ileum measures 90mm in length and 35mm in open circumference.  The caecum andascending colon measure 90mm in total length and 40mm in diameter.  The attached mesentery measures 60mm in width.  No appendix is received.  There is a lesion present at the ileocaecal valve measuring 40mm in diameter and involves 80% of the valve circumferentially.  The tumour is 70mm from the proximal margin and is 65m from the distal margin.  There is fat wrapping and retraction on the area overlying the lesion.  The remaining mucosa is unremarkable with no polyps identified.  On sectioning the tumour invades through the full thickness of the muscle wall and invades into the mesenteric fat.  The apical lymph node is not identified.  Multiple lymph nodes are seen in the mesentery.  
Block 1 - proximal margin;2 - distal margin; 3 - tumour with terminal ileum; 4 - tumour with caecum; 5-7 - representative tumour (5 - deepest part to mesenteric fat; 6 - Reserve block); 8-14 - one lymph node each;15-17 - three possible lymph nodes each; 18 - one lymph node; 19 - remainder of possible lymph nodes.  (JA/ec  2.9.62) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr Q Whiddon) 
Synoptic Report for Bowel Carcinoma

Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:  Caecum (ileocaecal valve)
Maximum tumour diameter:  40mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  65mm (distal)
Tumour perforation:  No
For rectal tumours
Relation of tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection:  Not applicable
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiationby predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:  Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not applicable
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:  18
Number of lymph nodes involved:  3
pN1b	Metastases in 2-3 regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Present (Extramural)
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
No other significant abnormalities
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Not applicable
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status (block 4)
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
pT3     pN1b     pMX     R0	
DIAGNOSIS:
Right hemicolectomy - Adenocarcinoma (T3, N1b, MX).

