
Episode No:  69J908838M
693908.WJW

Bailard, GREGORIA-ROGELIO 
Lab No:  69J90883
Wimslow
GOSFORD  WA  2869
Specimen:Tissue
D.O.B:  4/3/2018
Sex:  F
Collected: 06/12/2012 at 09:08
Location:  Pathology North-ARMIDALE RURAL REFERRAL HOSPITAL
DR GENARO Tjingali VANDESTEENE
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Ovarian Ca with peritoneum mets from 1.  Liver.  2.  Peritoneum.  3. Pelvis. 
Additional information obtained:  Original resection of ovarian tumour preformed inSTRATHALBYN.  No pathology available.  
 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Liver tumour segment 6" consists of an irregular nodular piece of tan tissue 70 x 55 x 35mm.  There is a segment of liver 55 x 40 x 30mm with adherent fat.  The cut surface reveals a cream relatively well circumscribed nodule within the fat and abutting and appearing to push into the liver capsule measuring 35 x 35 x 30mm.  The uninvolved liver appears unremarkable.  The tumour appears to come close to the surgical resection margin.  
Blocks: 1 to 5 - representative tumour; 6 - uninvolved liver.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Peritoneal tumour" consists of seven fragments of tan fatty tissue from 8 to 38mm in maximum dimension.  The two larger pieces are  almost entirely replaced with a cream soft relatively well circumscribed tumour measuring 32mm in maximum dimension.  One of the smaller nodules 18mm is also similarly replaced by tumour.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - representative larger piece; 3 & 4 - second larger piece; 5 - representative smaller piece; 6 - reserve block.    
  
C.  Specimen labelled "Pelvic tumour" consists of four rough and irregular pieces of tan and fatty tissue from 12 to 40mm.  Each piece of tissue has large areas of cream well circumscribed tumour within it up to 12mm in maximum dimension.  Representative sections in 4 blocks.   (RR/ta  2/8/62) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr R Iannuzzi):
A.  Sections show a well differentiated adenocarcinoma with a villiform and glandular architecture lined by columnar cells.  The tumour shows positive staining with CK7 and CA125.  The CK20, CDX2 and P16 stains are negative.  The morphological appearance and immunohistochemical profile are consistent with an ovarian primary, favoured to be endometrioid in type.  The tumour is situated mainly within adipose tissue adjacent to liver with minorinfiltration of the liver capsule.  No tumour is seen within liver parenchyma and the liver resection margin appears clear of tumour.  Tumour extends to the soft tissue (adipose tissue) margin.  
B.  Sections show metastatic adenocarcinoma similar to that seen in specimen A.  The resection margin focally transects the tumour in one of the specimens.  
C.  Sections show metastatic adenocarcinoma similar to that seen in specimen A.The resection margin focally transects the tumour in one of the specimens. 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Liver segment 6:  
- Well differentiated adenocarcinoma consistent with ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  
- No definite involvement of liver parenchyma.  
- Positive soft tissue margins.  
B.  Peritoneal tumour:  
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma, margin involved.
C.  Pelvic tumour:
- Metastatic adenocarcinoma, margin involved.

