
 6299603.KVM
Mullens, VIVIENNE
62Y96033

Last edited : 23/8/2063	: 2
CLINICAL:
Small bowel resection.  Cardiac hx HT.   Carcinoid tumour.  Mitral valve regurgitation moderate.  Osteoporosis.  Re-resection of carcinoid deposit in mesentery.  
 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Small bowel" consists of a segment of small bowel measuring 290mm in length.  The specimen is not orientated for proximal or distal ends.
There is a thickened area of bowel located 13mm from one margin containing a staple margin which is presumed to represent the previous anastomosis site. No mucosal lesions are identified. A mesenteric nodule is located adjacent to apical suture measuring 35 x 35 x 20mm which does not appear to communicate with the bowel wall. There is a small amount of attached fat received - no definite lymph nodes are identified.  
Blocks: 1 - margins; 2 & 3 - sections of bowel mucosa adjacent to the anastomosis; 4 to 6 - composite blocks, sections from nodule to bowel mucosa; 7 - reserve block; 8 - representative normal mucosa; 9 & 10 - possible lymph nodes.   (CA/ta 21/8/63) 
MICROSCOPIC:(Reported by Dr R Weisman)
Sections through the mesenteric nodule show a 35mm deposit of well differentiated neuroendocrine tumour (carcinoid tumour). The appearance is identical to that of the previously reported small bowel carcinoid tumour (62Y96033). The deposit expands the mesentery and is partially surrounded by a cuff of variably dense fibrous tissue and mesenteric fat. Focally, the tissue overlying the tumour deposit is replaced by inflamed granulation tissue. There are scattered foci of lymphovascular space invasion. One of five sampled lymph nodes show metastatic tumour (1/5). The tumour does not involve the overlying bowel wall. The bowel adjacent to the presumed anastomotic site show mild non-specific mucosal chronic inflammatory change with expansion of the lamina propria and thickened intestinal villi. The bowel wall is viable and there are scattered serosal adhesions, including a focal mild foreign body response to polarisable (?suture) material. The surgical margins appear clear of tumour. 

DIAGNOSIS:
Small bowel: 
35mm mesenteric deposit of well differentiated neuroendocrine tumour (carcinoid tumour).
There are scattered foci of lymphovascular space invasion and metastatic tumour is present in one of five lymph nodes(1/5). 


