Episode No:  63A847189Q
630847.CXY

Dumas, JONELL 
Lab No:  63A84718
Zoumar
COOMA  Victoria  1825
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  23/12/2036
Sex:  M
Collected: 17/01/2013 at 08:57
Location:  MEDIC/SURGERY WARD-NARROMINE HOSPITAL & COMMUNITY HEALTH
DR DHIRRIL Felix BROSCIOUS
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Gastrectomy.  Small bowel resection.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Stomach" consists of a total gastrectomy with attached omentum.  The specimen includes distorted distal oesophagus, approximately 25mm in length, greater curve 150mm long and lesser curve 100mm long.  On the external of the antrum anteriorly close to the greater curvature there is an almost totally detached haemorrhagic fatty nodule 30 x 40 x 10mm it is 15mm from the distal margin. The specimen includes a small amount of unremarkable perioesophageal fat, lesser omentum and a portion of greater omentum.
The wall of the distal oesophagus and proximal stomach (up to proximal body) is expanded by an exophytic circumscribed tumour 75 x 50 x 40mm. The tumour is lined by intact mucosa with and area of possible ulceration 10 mm in diameter in the oesophagus. The tumour extends into the stomach along the anterior wall and lesser curve. The serosa of the stomach is smooth and shiny and appears uninvolved. The cut surface of the tumour is lobulated, solid andwell circumscribed with fibrous appearance there are no areas of haemorrhage or necrosis.  The mucosal surface surrounding the tumour has a flattened appearance. The rest of the gastric mucosa is homogenous and smooth. Proximal margin isinked blue, distal margin black and proximal serosal surface green.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 -closest  proximal margin; 4 - proximal margin; 5 - tumour with normal mucosa; 6 - tumour with  lesser omentum; 7 - tumour; 9 - tumour with flattened surrounding mucosa; 10 and 11 - tumour; 12 - tumour with distal mucosa; 13 - representative fundus; 14 - representative antral; 15 - distal margin; 16 & 17 - representative section of fatty serosal nodule; 18 to 20 - greatest curve lymph nodes; 21 to 23 - lesser curve lymph node; 24 & 25 - representative sections of omentum.  
(OD/ta 19/3/63) 
B.Specimen labelled "Small bowel" consists of an unorientated segment of small intestine 80 x 20mm. The external surface is unremarkable.  The mucosal surface is smooth and homogeneous.  No lesions are identified.  The surgical margins are inked black and blue.  
Blocks:  1 - surgical margins; 2 - representative sections from normal mucosa.
(UJ/cc 18/3/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Q Blain): 
A.  The 75mm polypoid tumour is a leiomyoma.  The circumscribed unencapsulated tumour straddles the cardio-oesophageal junction.  The tumour expands the wall of the distal oesophagus and extends into the upper stomach along its anterior wall reaching the proximal body.  Within the distal oesophagus the tumour appears to be focally continuous with attenuated muscularis mucosa and pushesinto outer muscularis propria. Within the mucosa and submucosa are univolved and the tumour expands the muscularis propria compartment displacing the native smooth muscle fibres.  The overlying gastro-oesophageal mucosais non-ulcerated, however in the distal oesophagus the surface is depressed and lined by attenuated stratified squamous epithelium showing reactive change, overlying a focus of granulation tissue; the appearances suggest regeneration overa prior ulcer.
The leiomyoma has a lobulated multinodular configuration with a main circumscribed nodule plus a few smaller adjacent nodules.  The tumour is composed of broad fascicles of hypocellular fairly uniform cells with bipolar elongated nuclei, pale chromatin, small nucleoli and eosinophilic cytoplasm.  An isolated typical mitotic figure is seen (<1/50 hpf) but no cellular areas, significant nuclear pleomorphism or tumour necrosis is seen.  The tumour is 2mm clear of the proximal (oesophageal) resection margin and well clear of the distal (duodenum) resection margin.
Four (4) lesser omental and sixteen (16) greater omental lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy.
Immunohistology:
The tumour cells stain as follows:
Positive:  Desmin (diffuse strong), SMA (diffuse strong).
Negative:  CD117 (minimal background staining and mast cells positive), S100 (minimal non-specific background staining), CD34 (highlights capillaries).
The Ki67 proliferation index is less than 1%.
The oesophageal squamous epithelium shows mild patchy lymphocytic exocytosis and very mild patchy submucosal non-specific chronic inflammation.  No glandular metaplasia, intestinal metaplasia or dysplasia is seen.  There is mild chronic carditis and very mild non-specified gastritis within the gastric body and antrum.  No Helicobacter organisms are seen and no intestinal metaplasia or dysplasia is seen.  The duodenal villi are mostly denuded but the residual mucosa and wall show nosignificant abnormality.
The loosely attached haemorrhagic and nodular portion of adipose tissue described grossly anteriorly near the antrum shows subserosal organising haemorrhage, organising thrombus with vessels, patchy fat necrosis and organising septal fibrosis.  The aetiology is unclear but torsion is a possibility.  
There is no evidence of malignancy. 
B.Sections show unremarkable small bowel wall including essentially normal mucosa.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Total gastrectomy:
-	75mm cardio-oesophageal leiomyoma
-	2mm clear of closest (oesophageal) resection margin, well clear of distal (duodenal) margin
-	Mild non-specific chronic carditis and very mild non-specific chronic gastritis
-     No Helicobacter seen. 
B.  Small bowel:  No abnormality detected.

