 8540303.FEZ
Stuever, LOUIE
85L03032

Last edited : 26/3/2063		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Gastric cancer.  Partial gastrectomy.  Staple line of stomach resection.  HTN, DM, CABG.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Partial stomach" consists of a previously opened partial gastrectomy specimen measuring 155mm in length and up to 95mm in circumference with attached omental soft tissue 110 x 60 x 15mm.  The gastric mucosa appears normal.  There is an 80 x 55 x 50mm intramural mass.  The mass has a homogenous pale yellow solid cut surface.  The tumour is limited to the gastric mucosa internally and muscularis propria externally with no evidence of extension beyond the gastric wall.  The tumour is 12mm from the closer cut end and 75mm from the margin further away. The omental tissue is serially sliced.  No lymph nodes or indurated nodules are seen.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - tumour in relation to the closer margin (LS); 3 - representative section of tumour, reserved block; 4 to 8 - representative sections of the tumour; 9 - representative LS from the margin further away from the tumour 10 & 11 - representative omental tissue.
B.  Specimen labelled "Distal stomach" consists of an elongated piece of gastric wall 55mm in length and up to 16mm in width.  The specimen is stapled along its length over the serosal surface.  The staples are removed and neo margin is inked blue.  Themucosa appears normal.  Specimen is sliced transversely.  There is no evidence of tumour deposit.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representative TS.   (TO: JM/BA; KP/bl 23/3/63)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr R Welms):
A. Sections show an 80mm spindle cell lipoma inthe submucosa and muscularis propria.  The lesion is composed of sheets of mature fat cells of varying sizes. No lipoblasts are identified.  Stroma containing bland spindled shaped tumour cells with positive staining for CD34, and negative staining for S100, are scattered throughout the lesion. Mast cells are also present.  The lesion is negative for c-kit, desmin, HMB45, Melan A and S100. The lesion is clear of the margins of excision.  
There is no evidence of malignancy.
The gastric and duodenal mucosa appears unremarkable.
Shown to Dr LEIGHANN HYSON and Dr William Difiore.
B.  Sections show normal body type gastric mucosa.  There is no evidence of significant inflammation, metaplasia, dysplasia or malignancy.  No Helicobacter pylori are seen.
DIAGNOSIS
A. Partial gastrectomy: 80mm spindle cell lipoma
B. Distal stomach: no abnormality detected

