
Episode No:  54E974103Y
5419741.AIY

Costin, FOSTER Eilene 
LabNo:  54E97410
Balderstone
BUNBURY  Western Australia  4208
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/5/1994
Sex:  F
Collected: 25/3/2063 at :
Location:  PRINCE OF WALESPRIVATE-SOUTH WEST HEALTHCARE - WARRNAMBOOL CAMPUS
DR Tynisha SAFFRON Fulginiti
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (22.7.63):


CLINICAL:
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for serous carcinoma (on omental biopsy).  Small bowel mesentery nodules.
 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus & cervix, bilateral tubes + ovaries" consists of a partly opened uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 92g in total.  The uterus measures 60 x 40 x 30mm and shows fibrous adhesions on its serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 30 x 28mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is <1mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 18mm in maximum thickness.  Arising from the anterior endometrium there is an 8 x 5 x 3mm polyp.  The left fallopian tube measures 40mm in length and 7mm in external diameter.  The right ovary measures 30 x 15 x 12mm.  There are several roughened tan nodules on its surface measuring from 3 to 8mm across.  The left fallopian tube measures 40mm in length and 6mm in external diameter.  On its surface there are several tan nodules measuring from 2 to 6mm across.  The left ovary measures 20 x 13 x 10mm.  Its external surface has a tan roughened appearance.  There are multiple tan nodules on the right and left adnexal soft tissues.  Representative sections in twenty-five blocks.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix; 4 & 5 - further sections of anterior body with endometrial polyp AE; 6 to 8 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix; 9 to 11 - right fallopian tube AE; 12 to15 - right ovary AE; 16 to 18 - left fallopian tube AE; 19 to 22 - left ovary AE; 23 - right adnexal soft tissue; 24 - left adnexal soft tissue; 25 - research block.
B.  Specimen labelled "Gastrocolic nodule" consists of a firm and nodular piece of partly fatty grey tissue measuring 30 x 18 x 15mm.  Its cut surface shows firm cream tissue.  Representative sections in three blocks.
C.  Specimen labelled "Mesenteric nodule" consists of two nodular pieces of tan-grey tissue measuring 10 x 7 x 6mm and 12 x 12 x 4mm.  AE one block. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Cul de sac tumour" consists of a partly haemorrhagic nodular piece of grey tissue measuring 30 x 15 x 12mm.  AE two blocks. 
E.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of an irregular piece of omental fat measuring 230 x 130 x 15mm.  Its cut surface shows firm cream tissue over an area of 100 x 60mm.  Representative sections in threeblocks (block 3 - research block).
(FP/cc  25/3/63) 
 


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr N Gritz): 
A.  Sections of the cervix are unremarkable.  Sections of the endometrium show that this is inactive and the described endometrial polyp is benign.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  On the serosa of the anterior uterus and also focally on the serosa of the posterior uterus there are deposits of poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  Some deposits extend a short distance into outer myometrium.    
Sections of the right fallopian tube show a deposit of poorly differentiated serous carcinoma at the fimbrial end.  Focal dysplasia (p53 positive) of the tubal epithelium is also identified at the fimbrial end of the right tube, away from the invasive tumour.  
Sections of the left fallopian tube show focal involvement of the fimbrial end by serous carcinoma and there is also some adjacent carcinoma in situ.  There are also deposits of poorly differentiated serous carcinoma on the serosa of the tube elsewhere
Sections of both ovaries show deposits of poorly differentiated serous carcinoma on the serosal surfaces and involving the cortex.  
Sections of right and left adnexal soft tissues show involvement by serous carcinoma. 
B.  Sections show mesothelium with underlying fibrofat.  There is a deposit of poorly differentiated serous carcinoma on the serosal surface and invading underlying tissue.
C.  Sections show nodules of poorly differentiatedserous carcinoma.
D.  Sections show mesothelium with underlying fibrofat.  The tissue is involved by poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.
E.  Sections of omentum show extensive involvement by poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  There is some evidence of chemotherapy effect with between 10 and 50% replacement of tumour by fibrous and fibroblastic tissue.         
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes:  Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma involving fimbrial ends of both tubes, right and left adnexal soft tissues and serosa of both ovaries, uterus and left fallopian tube.  Focal carcinoma in-situ at fimbrial end of left tube, and focal dysplasia at fimbrial end of right tube.
B.  Gastrocolic nodule:  Serous carcinoma. 
C.  Mesenteric nodule:  Serous carcinoma.  
D.  Cul de sac:  Serous carcinoma. 
E.  Omentum:  Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma showing some chemotherapy effect.   
Comment:  This tumour would previously have been regarded as primary peritoneal but would now be regarded as primary fallopian tube.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (22.7.63):
A.  Stains for hormone receptors have been performed as requested.
Oestrogen receptor:   Strongly positive, 100% of cells.
Progesterone receptor:   Negative.
  

