Episode No:  22R596019S
2265960.EZS

Morrish, Nathaniel 
Lab No:  22R59601
S Bruner
YEPPOON  VIC  3260
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  4/2/1974
Sex:  M
Collected: 24/3/2063 at :
Location:  POW L7 CONSULTING ROOMS-PORTLAND DISTRICT HEALTH
DR Hugh Ken DICKEL
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Right hemicolectomy, obstructing tumour.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy" consists of a right hemicolectomy 220mm in length with a 55mm length of terminal ileum.  There is a circumferential ulcerated tumour taking up a 25mm length of bowel, 110mm from the distal resection margin.  There is puckering of the serosa overlying the tumour.  The tumour appears to invade to a maximum depth of 15mm, abuts the anterior serosal surface and invades through the muscularis propria and into the mesenteric fat.  The remainder of the mucosa appears unremarkable apart from melanosis coli.  
Blocks:  1 - resection margin; 2 to 6 - representative tumour; 7 - representative uninvolved colonic mucosa; 8 - ?appendix; 9 - apical node; 10 - one lymph node serially sectioned; 11 - lymph nodes; 12 - one lymph node bisected;13 - lymph nodes; 14 - lymph nodes; 15 - reserve block.  (WS/cc  25/3/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr H Langsdale): 
Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the right colon.  The tumour has infiltrated through the full thickness of the bowel wall and invades the mesenteric fat.  The carcinoma infiltrates close to the anterior peritoneum which is inflamed but the mesothelial layer has not been breached by carcinoma.  
The colonic mucosa shows moderate melanosis and there are no polyps.
The resection margins are well clear of tumour and the terminal ileum shows a mild chronic ileitis with chronic architectural changes (?cause).
Two (2) of the twelve (12) mesenteric nodes identified contain metastatic carcinoma and one of these shows perinodal spread for a distance of 1mm.  The apical node is not involved.  
DIAGNOSIS:
Right hemicolectomy:  
BOWEL CANCER PROFORMA

Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:  Ascending colon.
Maximum tumour diameter:  25mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  110mm
Tumour perforation:  No
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation bypredominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not involved
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:  12
Number of lymph nodes involved:   2
pN1b	Metastasesin 2-3 regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Adenomas  Nil
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
pT3 pNIb pMX R0

