
Episode No:  59B238084U
5902380.WLU

Embury, Pedro Scottie 
Lab No:  59B23808
Riethel
CESSNOCK  Queensland  5061
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  27/11/1979
Sex:  F
Collected: 24/01/2013 at 17:30
Location:  UROLOGY OPD-MULLEWA HOSPITAL
DR JEAN Tyrone Pounders
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Recurrent intra-abdominal sarcoma.  PMR, sarcoma removed 2061 (included right kidney), lung disease.  R hemicolectomy.  
Recurrent sarcoma, two further specimens sent in addition to main specimen 
1) Lesion removed from small bowel; 2) sarcoma removed from pelvic side wall.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy for sarcoma" consists of a right hemicolectomy measuring 330mm in length with a section of attached terminal ileum 155mm.  The appendix is not present.  Attached to the mesenteric side of the terminal ileum and the right colon are multiple nodules of fatty tissue which are covered with peritoneum.  The piece overlying the terminal ileum measures 70 x 65 x 38mm and is 25mm from the proximal resection margin.  There are multiple nodules on the serosa of the caecum and ascending colon; these are covered by peritoneum and have a smooth surface.  The serosal nodules involve a length of 130mm and extend to a point 55mm from the distal excision margin.  On sectioning, the nodulesconsist of uniform fatty tissue which abut and push into the bowel wall but do not appear to penetrate into or through the muscularis propria.  Multiple diverticula are identified within the colonic mucosa.  One large diverticulum has a firm hard black nodule of impacted faeces within it.  Two possibe lymph nodes are identified within the colonic mesenteric fat.  Two donuts of bowel wall are received separately withthe specimen, measuring 50 and 25mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks:  1 - resection margins; 2 & 3 - representative fatty tumour adherent to terminal ileum; 4 to 7 - representative tumour nodules adherent to right colon; 8 - diverticulum; 9 - representative uninvolved bowel; 10 - nodes; 11 & 12 - representative tumour; 13 - reserved block; 14 - representative one donut; 15 - representative other donut.
B.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel tumour" consists of a small sleeve of bowel wall 22 x 10mm attached to a nodular piece of soft tissue 40 x 30 x 28mm.  The soft tissue has a mainly smooth surface but the surface is focally roughened.  The roughened area is inked black and the remainder of the surface is inked blue.  The cut surface shows fatty and myxoid tissue.  Representative sections in four blocks.
C.  Specimen labelled "Tumour right iliac fossa" consists of a piece of tan and fatty tissue measuring 50 x 25 x 25mm.  Most of the surface is smooth and shiny but there is a focal roughened area.  The cut surface reveals fatty and myxoid tissue.  Representative sections in three blocks.    (RR/cc  27/3/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr P Barcello): 
A.  Sections of the described tumour nodules attached to the serosal aspect of the terminal ileum and right colon show well differentiated liposarcoma.  This is partly lipoma-like and partly sclerosing.  The tumour abuts the muscularis propria of the ileum and colon and it extends through the muscularis propria into the submucosa of thecolon in at least one area (block A4).  There are occasional foci where the tumour shows an increase in cellularity and atypia but no de-differentiation is seen.  Three lymph nodes which were found in the mesenteric fat are unremarkable.  There is a fibrous capsule overlying part of the tumour and a small amount of liver tissue isnoted attached to this capsule in one section (block A12).  Tumour involves subserosal fat at the resection margin of the terminal ileum (block A).  Sections of the two separate donuts show unremarkable small and large intestinal wall.  
B.  Sections show liposarcoma with some adjacent small bowel wall.  The tumour is adherent to, and focally invades into, the outer muscularis propria of the small bowel wall.  The tumour is sclerosing-type.  No de-differentiation is seen.  
C.  Sections show a nodule of well differentiated sclerosing liposarcoma.  Focally the tumour is moderately cellular and shows more marked atypia (block C3) but no 
de-differentiation, with the histologic pattern seen in the previous tumour (59B23808), is seen.  
Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr P Brundage.

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right hemicolectomy:  Deposits of well differentiated liposarcoma, lipoma-like and sclerosing.  
B.  Small bowel tumour:  Well differentiated sclerosing liposarcoma.  
C.  Tumour right iliac fossa:  Well differentiated sclerosing liposarcoma with focal increased cellularity and atypia, see text.  

