Episode No:  33K088493P
3340884.XKP

Boehler, Alexandra Arlen 
Lab No:  33K08849
Yeadon
ROSEBERY  QLD  6913
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  16/11/2004
Sex:  M
Collected: 25/01/2013 at 17:25
Location:  ST GEORGE PRIVATE-GOONDIWINDI HOSPITAL
DR MICHAEL Gary TESLOW
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Liver mets from colonic cancer.  Colonic cancer withmets.  Possible haemochromatosis - not yet formally diagnosed.  Extended right hemihepatectomy.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Liver" consists of a right segment of liver 70mm (medial-lateral) x 170mm (anterior-posterior) and 220mm (superior-inferior).  The serosal surface is unremarkable.  The surgical margin is inked green.  Two white solid nodules are identified measuring 5 and 10mm in maximum diameter.  The largest nodule is 12mm from the surgical margin and the smallest one is more than 30mm from the surgical margin.  The rest of the parenchyma is unremarkable.  
Blocks:  1 & 2 - small metastasis; 3 to 5 - large tumour (block 4 - reserve block); 6 & 7 - normal liver.
B.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of an enlarged gallbladder 95 x 50 x 30mm.  The external surface has a few adhesions.  The mucosal surface is green and velvety.  It is filled with bile.  No gallstones are identified.  The wall has a maximum thickness of 2mm.  
Blocks:  1 - one TS resection margin cystic duct and one TS neck; 2 - cystic duct lymph node; 3 - TS body; 4 - two LS fundus.   (ND/cc 1/3/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr H Hebron - 2.3.2063)
A.  Sections confirm the presence of two foci of moderately to well differentiated adenocarcinoma, 5mm and 10mm in maximum macroscopic dimension, respectively. 
Immunohistochemical stainswere performed and the results are as follows:
Carcinoma cells positive for: CK20, CK19.
Carcinoma cells negative for: CK7, hepar-1, TTF-1, PSA.
The overall morphology and pattern of immunohistochemical staining would be consistent with metastatic adenocarcinoma of primary colorectal origin.  
The adjacent non-neoplastic liver shows preservation of overall hepatic architecture. The hepatocellular cords areregular and are of normal thickness. The portal tracts are of normal size and show patchy mild chronic inflammation. The portal tract structures, including bile ducts and portal vessels, are normal. There is a mild to moderate increase in stainable iron in the hepatocytes in a diffuse distribution (grade 2 of 4 - Modified Scheuer score). Otherwise, the hepatocytes show mild reactive changes. The lobules contain patchy mild macrovesicular steatosis and scattered foci of mild inflammation. A reticulin and masson's trichrome stain show no significant fibrosis or evidence of cirrhosis. There is no increase in stainable copper. No diPAS positive alpha-1-antitrypsin globules are present. No cytoplasmic viral inclusions are seen. 
B.  Sections of gallbladder show chronic cholecystitis. The gallbladder wall shows mild fibromuscular hyperplasia, minimal Rokitansky Aschoff sinus formation and patchy mild chronicinflammation. There are no unusual features. The cystic duct lymph node shows lipogranulomatosis. There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.
COMMENT:
The liver contains two foci of metastatic adenocarcinoma, with features consistent with primary colorectal origin. There is also a mild to moderate increase in stainable iron (grade2 of 4), raising the possibility of hereditary haemochromatosis. There is also mild non-specific portal inflammation and patchy mild macrovesicular steatosis.
Please correlate with clinical findings. 
Representative slides seen with Dr H Mardirosian.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Liver: 
Metastatic adenocarcinoma consistent with primary colorectal origin. 
Mild to moderate increase in stainable iron (grade 2 of 4), raising the possibility of hereditary haemochromatosis. 
Mild non-specific portal inflammation and patchy mild macrovesicular steatosis.

B.  Gallbladder: Chronic cholecystitis.





