Episode No:  87H400447B
8724004.MSB

Oder, ROLANDO Jackie 
Lab No:  87H40044,87H40044
Gibbons Ranch
GLADSTONE  Western Australia  6917
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  18/8/2014
Sex:  F
Collected: 7/10/2063at :
Location:  RECOVERY - BARCALDINE HOSPITAL
DR REGGIE Granville COMP
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
ADDITIONAL REPORT (18/7/63)


CLINICAL:
? Endometrial cancer.  Endometrioid adenocarcinoma on cervical biopsy.  Family history of bowel and ovarian cancer.  TAH/BSO today.  Please do mismatch repair genes.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right tube and ovary", received fresh, consists of a solid and cystic mass 180 x 170 x 20mm.  On sectioning it is filled with bloody, thick material and necrotic debris. Thereare irregular thick papillary formation and solid areas.  The surface appears intact.  The fallopian tube is 70mm in length. Blocks 1 & 2 - FS; 3-10 - representative sections of the cystic tumour; 11 & 12 - 2LS fimbria and 2TS fallopian tube.
FROZEN SECTION:  Borderline tumour, ? serous or endometrioid.
Result to Dr Logston (anaesthetist) by Dr V Roshannon at 10:20am on 8.5.13. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus and cervix", consists of a uterus with attached cervix weighing in total 637g.  The uterus measures 160 x 100 x 80mm and has two large fibroids. The serosal surface is shiny and smooth. The ectocervix measures 40 x 30mm. Throughthe ectocervical canal there is a bulging exophytic and necrotic tumour.  On sectioning the endometrial cavity is totally replaced by an ulcerated exophytic and fungating tumour extending in the endocervix and ectocervix.  The tumour is 15mm from the cervical/vaginal margin.  On sectioning the tumour thickness is 20mm.  The myometrial wall is 22mm.  Two fibroids are identified 70 x 20mm in maximum diameter.  Blocks1-11 - 1 full LS of anterior body and cervix; 12-22 - 1 full LS of posterior body and cervix; 23 & 24 - right and left parametrial tissues. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary", consists of a fallopian tube with fimbria 50mm in length and 5mm in maximumdiameter. An ovary 30 x 15 x 5mm. The external surface is unremarkable. The cut surface of the ovary is unremarkable. 
Block 1 - 2LS fimbria; 2 - 2 representative sections of the ovary and 2TS fallopian tube.
D.  Specimen labelled "Left groin node", consists of four lymph nodes ranging from 10-50mm.  On sectioning the four lymph nodes appear replaced by tumour.
Block 1 - 2 lymph nodes; 2 - representative section of one lymph node; 3 - representative section of the largest lymph node.
E.  Specimen labelled "Right external iliac lymph node", consists of an enlarged lymph node measuring 40 x 20 x 15mm.  Representative sections of the lymph node in 1 block.
F.  Specimen labelled "External iliac node", consists of a piece of fatty tissue 50 x 30 x 20mm containing five lymph nodes ranging from 5-25mm.  Block 1 - one bisected lymph node; 2 - three lymph nodes; 3 - 1 representative section of the largest lymph node. 
G.  Specimen labelled "Left obturator node", consists of three enlarged lymph nodes ranging from 10-30mm.  Block 1 - two lymph nodes; 2 - representative section of the largest lymph node.
H.  Specimen labelled "Right inguinal lymph node", consists of five lymph nodes 5-20mm in maximum diameter. The largest lymph node appears totally replaced by tumour.  Block 1 - two lymph nodes; 2 - representative section of the largest lymph node; 3 - two lymph nodes.
I.   Specimen labelled "Right femoral nodes", consists of four lymph nodes 10-40mm.  The largest lymph node is replaced by tumour.  Block 1 - one lymphnode; 2 - two lymph nodes; 3 - representative section of the largest lymph node.  
J.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of a piece of omentum 260  x 150 x 20mm.  On sectioning it is unremarkable.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.  (QG/ec 7.11.63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr V Phegley) 
A.  Sections of ovary showan endometrioid adenocarcinoma admixed with clear cell adenocarcinoma.  Most of the ovary is occupied by the tumour including a mixture of endometrioid adenocarcinoma (65%) and clear cell adenocarcinoma (35%).The endometrioid adenocarcinoma component is well differentiated (grade 1) with grade 1 architecture and grade 2 nuclei.  There is extensive squamous differentiation.  The clear cell adenocarcinoma component shows high grade nuclei with papillary pattern.  The papillae are lined by hobnail cells and have hyalinised cores.  Large areas of necrosis are present.  The fallopian tube is unremarkable.
B.  Sections of uterus show a moderately differentiated endometrioid adenocarcinoma (grade 2).  The carcinoma shows grade 2 nuclei and grade 2 architecture with 10% solid area.  The carcinoma invades into the outer half of myometrium.  The maximal depth of tumour invasion is 20mm and the myometrial thickness is 22mm (block B2).  The rest of myometrium shows features of adenomyosis and leiomyoma.  The serosa is unremarkable except foci of endometriosis.  There is no evidence of definite lymphovascular invasion.  The carcinoma involves the endocervix and cervical muscle wall.  The cervical/vaginal resection margin is clear.  The parametrium is unremarkable.
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status (Block B1)
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Loss of nuclear staining
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect thepresence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
C.  Sections show normal appearing fallopian tube and ovary with no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
D.  Four (4) lymph nodes are identified.  One of four lymph nodes is involved by metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
E.  One (1) lymph node is identified.  The lymph node is unremarkable.  There is no evidence of tumour metastasis.
F.  Five (5) lymph nodes are identified.The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of tumour metastasis.
G.  Three (3) lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of tumour metastasis.
H.  Four (4) lymph nodes are identified.  One of four lymph nodes is involved by metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
I.  Four (4) lymph nodes are identified.  One of four lymph nodes is involved by metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
J.  Sections show normal appearing adipose tissue with no significant abnormality.  One (1) lymph node is identified.  The lymph node is unremarkable.  There is no evidence of tumour metastasis.
Representative slides are shown to Dr V Stfleur.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right tube and ovary - Mixed endometrioid adenocarcinoma (65%) and clear cell adenocarcinoma (35%).
B.  Uterus and cervix - Endometrioid adenocarcinoma (grade 2).
C.  Left tube and ovary - No significant abnormality.
D.  Left groinnode - One of four nodes involved by metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma (1/4).
E.  Right external iliac lymph node - No evidence of malignancy (0/1).
F.  External iliac node - No evidence of malignancy (0/5).
G.  Left obturator node - No evidence of malignancy (0/3).
H.  Right inguinal lymph node - One of four nodes involved by metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma (1/4).
I.  Right femoral node - One of four nodes involved by metastatic endometrioid adenocarcinoma (1/4).
J.  Omentum - No evidence of malignancy (0/1).
ADDITIONAL REPORT (18/7/63)

Receptors: 
ER:   Positive
	100 % of nuclei stained
	predominant intensity of staining:  strong
PR:   Positive
	100 % of nuclei stained
	predominant intensity of staining:  strong


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (19/5/2064):
Immunohistochemical staining for Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) status is performed for the right ovarian tumour (specimen A).
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status (Block A4)
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Loss of nuclear staining
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.

