SPR no: 86Z2842909
MRN no: 8692842
Site_name: BARMERA HEALTH SERVICES
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportSUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ATTACHED

86Z28429 (86Z2842909) UBRY, JOHNATHON Jerald

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Pleural nodule frozen section.  colorectal cancer - rectal cancer, debulking tumour, splenectomy.  Sigmoid/rectum, small bowel, omentum, spleen.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;PLEURAL NODULE&amp;quot;.  A piece of tissue 12x8x3mm.  Bisected.  All embedded for frozen section.

F/S:  &amp;quot;Adenocarcinoma&amp;quot;.  Results given by phone to Dr. Fairy Sakai (Anaesthetic Reg) AT 12:26hrs on 23.8.2018 by Dr. X. Harapat.

AE (M-1).

B.  &amp;quot;COLON, SPLEEN, SMALL BOWEL, OMENTUM&amp;quot;.  Spleen with attached omental tissue.  Three segments of small bowel and a segment of large bowel and separately are three pieces of fibrofatty tissue.  The spleen weighs 128g and it measures 110x85x30mm.  The capsule is mildly roughened.  Also noted on the capsule are scattered pale white areas ?tumour.  On sectioning, the cut surface is red to brown.  No discrete mass lesion is identified.

(1&amp;amp;2  representative sections of spleen).

Attached omentum measures 280x90x20mm.  It is caked by tumour with a tan cut surface.

(3&amp;amp;4  sections of omentum caked by tumour [4 tumour block]).

First segment of small bowel.  It measures 270mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm.  The serosa is roughened with areas of adhesion.  On opening the mucosa shows normal mucosal folds.  No discrete mass lesions is noted.  One margin is inked blue.  The other black.

(5  margins; 6  sectioned through area of serosal roughening).

Second segment of small bowel, measures 140mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm.  The serosa is roughened with areas of adhesion.  Mucosa shows normal mucosal folds.  No discrete lesion is identified.  One margin inked blue, the other black.

(7  sections showing margins and area of serosal roughening).

Third segment of small bowel measures 25mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm.  Serosa is smooth and unremarkable.  On opening, mucosa shows normal mucosal folds.  One margin inked blue.  The other black.

(8  third segment showing both margins in one section).

Segment of large bowel consistent with rectosigmoid.  It measures 200mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm.  The attached mesentery is up to 130mm wide.  The serosa is roughened with possible areas of adhesion.  Proximal margin is inked green.  Distal margin black.  Radial margin blue.  On opening, there is a circumferencial polypoid tumour centrally.  It measures 30mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm.  It is 100mm from the proximal margin, 100mm from the distal margin and 3mm from the radial margin.  The tumour is entirely above the anterior peritoneal reflection.  The mesorectum is complete.  On sectioning through the tumour, it has a cystic appearance filled with glistening mucinous material.

(9  proximal and distal margin; 10&amp;amp;11  one longitudinal composite slice [9  is the proximal edge of tumour, 10  is the distal edge of tumour and shows possible serosal involvement by tumour]; 12-14  one full face TS of tumour [13&amp;amp;14  is one slice showing tumour in relation to radial margin and deepest extent of tumour]; 15&amp;amp;16  one further section of tumour deepest extent in relation to radial margin; 17&amp;amp;18  full face TS of tumour; 19  further TS of tumour, apical node not easily identifiable, 18 possible nodes were identified; 20  eight nodes; 21 one node; 22  two nodes; 23  one node bisected, also within the attached mesocolic fat is a tubular structure; 24  tubular structure within mesocolic fat).

The separate pieces of fibrofatty tissue, together measure 55x55x12mm.

(25  multiple section through separate pieces of fibrofatty tissue).  RS (M-25/MC 24/9/2068 km).

MACROSCOPIC FINDINGS SUMMARY
Operation type:  Anterior resection.
Specimen length:  230mm, diameter 30mm
Tumour site:  Rectum.
Tumour size:  30mm
Maximum tumour diameter:   30mm circumferential.
Distance from margins:
Proximal:  100mm
Distal:  100mm
Radial:  3mm
Perforation:
Peritoneal reflection:  Tumour entirely above.
Mesorectal integrity:  Complete.
Extramuscular spread:
Tumour description:  Polypoid circumferential tumour.
Overlying serosa:
Lymph nodes:
Metastases:

Comments on macro:  Proximal green, distal black, radial blue.

MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr X Angove)
A.  The paraffin sections confirm fibrofatty tissue with underlying skeletal muscle. The fibrofatty tissues are infiltrated by moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.

B.  The splenic parenchyma is unremarkable.  On the serosal surface of the spleen there is moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with desmoplastic stromal reaction.

Sections of the omentum show deposits of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with demsoplastic stromal reaction.

Sections of the first described segment of small bowel shows serosal adhesions.

Sections of the second described segment of bowel shows serosal adhesions including foreign body giant cell reaction to birefringent foreign material.

Section through the third described segment of small bowel shows serosal adhesions.

Sections of the colon show moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma that infiltrates through all layers of the bowel wall into adjacent pericolic adipose tissue and also on to the serosal surface.  The tumour shows areas with mucin pools but this is less than 50% of the total tumour volume.  Features suspicious for lymphatic space invasion are seen. There are extranodal deposits of tumour within the mesentery.  See also synoptic report below.

Sections of the separate pieces of fibrofatty tissue show deposit of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma and also a portion of vas deferens is identified.

Tumour type:  Adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade:  Low grade (moderately differentiated)

Depth of invasion:  pT4a - Tumour penetrates to surface of the visceral peritoneum

Peritoneal surface involvement:  Present

Tumour infiltrating lymphocytes: Low density (&amp;lt;5/hpf)

Excision Margins:
Proximal:  100mm
Distal:  100mm
Radial:  Involved (tumour &amp;lt;1mm to radial margin)
Donuts:  Not received

Lymph nodes:
Number positive:  0 (but with extranodal deposits of carcinoma in pericolic adipose tissue - pN1c)
Total number:  12
Apical node:  Not identified

Intramural vein invasion:  Not seen

Extramural vein invasion:  Not seen

Small vessel (lymphatic) invasion:  Suspicious

Perineural invasion:  Not seen

Distant metastases:  Present - omentum, splenic serosa, peritoneum, pleura

Other findings:
Remote colon:  Unremarkable

Treatment effect:  N/A

Ancillary studies:  N/A

Mismatch repair enzymes, Immunostains:  to follow block B13

Microsatellite instability (MSI):  not tested

Synthesis/stage (AJCC/UICC TNM 7):

TNM stage:  pT4a , pN1c , pM1b

Stage grouping:  IV B

Residual tumour:  RX - cannot be assessed

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  PLEURA - ADENOCARCINOMA.
B.  COLON, SPLEEN, SMALL BOWEL AND OMENTUM - MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA WITH METASTASES TO OMENTUM, SPLENIC SEROSA, AND PERITONEAL ADIPOSE TISSUE.
28/9/2068 ank
Supplementary report
Immunostains for MSI proteins (Sprint Nextel Corporation Orana; block: B13)
MLH1: Positive staining present
PMS2: Positive staining present
MSH2: Positive staining present
MSH6: Positive staining present
Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme.
Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible.
9/1/2069 nh
