SPR no: 09G847658I
MRN no: 09284765
Site_name: ROCKINGHAM GENERAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Pre op.  Laparotomy, TAH, BSO, para aortic lymphadenectomy, pelvic exenteration and proceed.  Uterus, cervix, ovaries/tubes (rectal attachment), bladder, distal ureters (stent in left ureter).
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left para aortic lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of two pieces of fatty tissue, 28 x 16 x 9mm and 14 x 8 x 5mm.  Three possible lymph nodes are identified and submitted for frozen section.  Frozen section one - one lymph node trisected; frozen section 2 - two lymph nodes, larger bisected.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section one; 2 - frozen section two; 3 - remaining tissue.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Three reactive lymph nodes, no evidence of malignancy.
Phone results to Dr Walt (gynae consultant) by Dr C Buckwalter/A/Prof C Linn at 11:42am on 06/05/2016.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus, cervix, tube/ovary, bladder, ureters&amp;quot;, consists of a pelvic exenteration comprising uterus transected at the cervix, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes, bladder and distal segments of both ureters.  The uterus is 40 x 40 x 26mm and has a 5 x 5mm roughened fibrous region posteriorly which represents the site of adhesion to the rectum (as per the surgical team).  The rectal adhesion is marked with a black surgical suture and is inked black.  The remainder of the serosal surface of the uterus is smooth and shiny.  The left ovary is 23 x 16 x 10mm.  The left fallopian tube is 34 x 8mm and has no macroscopically identifiable fimbria.  The right ovary is 20 x 13 x 10mm.  The right fallopian tube is 50 x 9mm and has no macroscopically identifiable fimbria.  Both ovaries are unremarkable on sectioning.

The bladder is 40 x 60 x 50mm with a 45 x 2mm segment of right ureter and a 30 x 2mm stented segment of left ureter.  A roughened 17 x 13mm area with an orange suture is present at the superoposterior aspect of the bladder, representing the possible site of cervical transection as indicated by the surgical team.  This roughened area is inked black (false margin).  The bladder is opened posteriorly through the site of possible cervix.  Dense fibrous tissue is present under the black-inked region, with a 25 x 15 x 8mm necrotic region anterior to this.  The vagina is not definitely identified macroscopically.  The bladder mucosa is unremarkable and no fistula tract is identified on probing.

Representative sections are taken for frozen section.  Frozen section one - rectal adhesion; frozen section two - ?cervix; frozen section three - TS through bladder with ?fibrotic vaginal mucosa (inferior to frozen section two); frozen section four - remainder of rectal adhesion.

Blocks: 1 to 4 - frozen sections; 5 to 8 - serial LS of left superior bladder wall with necrotic area (VUJ in 7), embedded anterior to posterior; 9 - LS of black inked ?cervix (left side); 10 to 12 - three TS of left posterior bladder wall with ?fibrotic vaginal mucosa, embedded superior to inferior; 13 to 15 - serial LS of right superior bladder wall with necrotic area (VUJ block 14), embedded anterior to posterior; 16 - LS black inked ?cervix (right side); 17 - TS of right posterior bladder wall with ?fibrotic vaginal mucosa; 18 - left ureter margin; 19 - right ureter margin; 20 &amp;amp; 21 - paired blocks full LS of posterior uterus with site of rectal adhesion (20 - superior; 21 - inferior); 22 &amp;amp; 23 - paired blocks anterior uterus (22 - superior; 23 - inferior); 24 to 29 - left ovary and fallopian tube, AE from proximal to distal; 30 to 35 - right ovary and fallopian tube, AE proximal to distal.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Inflammation and fibrosis.  No cervical or vaginal squamous mucosa seen.  No evidence of malignancy.
Result to Prof C Deloach by Dr C Tabatabai/Dr C Wallbrown at 1:55pm on 6/2/16.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Suprapubic catheter site&amp;quot;, consists of two pieces of fatty tissue.  These each have dense fibrous tissue on one surface.  The larger is sectioned transversely into seven slices.  No discrete lesions are identified.
Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - five central TS, largest piece; 3 - both ends of largest piece en face; 4 - smaller piece.  AE.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Appendix&amp;quot;, consists of a 58 x 6mm appendix with attached mesoappendix to a maximum width of 21mm.  The serosal surface is smooth and shiny.  Base is inked blue.  Transverse sectioning shows a 3mm lumen with a 1mm wall thickness.  AE serially from block 1 (tip) to 3 (base).
(TO: KM; KM/rs 5/8/66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr C Panzarino):
A.  Sections show three lymph nodes.  No tumour is seen.

B.  The whole region of the posterior bladder which was indicated as the site of probable attached cervical and upper vaginal tissue has been extensively blocked.  Sections show bladder wall with extensive mucosal ulceration and full thickness necrosis of the wall.  There is focal endocervical glandular mucosa identified (block B6) with adjacent extensive necrotic tissue, and also there is a small amount of squamous muclsa identified (block B3) which may be upper vaginal.  No malignant tumour is seen.
Sections from the described roughened area on the posterior uterus, indicated as the site of adhesion to the rectum, show fibroblastic tissue with some necrosis and a prominent infiltrate of mixed chronic inflammatory cells; no tumour is seen.
Sections of the bladder elsewhere show intact urothelium and wall.  The remaining urothelium shows prominent reactive changes.  There is a mild infiltrate of mixed chronic inflammatory cells in the superficial lamina propria.
The proximal resection margins of the right and left ureters show reactive lining urothelium and moderate underlying chronic inflammation.
A section of the lower end of the posterior uterus shows necrosis extending through much of the uterine wall at the distal end, at the point of transection from the cervical region.
Remaining intact endometrium is thin and inactive and the myometrium is unremarkable.
Sections of the right and left fallopian tubes show features of chronic salpingitis.  There is also a right hydrosalpinx.
Sections of the left ovary show adherent fibrofat and an area of non-specific chronic inflammation. Sections of the right ovary show adherent fibrofat but the ovary is otherwise unremarkable.

C.  Sections of the larger piece show skin and subcutis.  The epidermis is partly ulcerated and there is a tract extending through the underlying dermis and subcutis, consistent with a suprapubic catheter site.  The tract is lined by granulation tissue.  The dermis of the adjacent skin is fibrotic and has a moderate, patchy infiltrate of mixed chronic inflammatory cells.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

D.  Sections show an unremarkable appendix.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left para-aortic lymph nodes:  No tumour (0/3).

B.  Uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaries, bladder and distal ureters:
1.  Full thickness necrosis of bladder wall in region of adherent cervix/upper vagina.
2.  Necrosis of posterior wall of uterus at site of transection of residual cervix.
3.  Inflamed fibroblastic tissue at site of adhesion of posterior uterus to rectum.
4.  Bilateral chronic salpingitis and right hydrosalpinx.

C.  Suprapubic catheter site.

D.  Appendix:  No abnormality seen.
