SPR no: 03O285892K
MRN no: 03528589
Site_name: GOULBURN VALLEY HEALTH - WARANGA CAMPUS
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report03O28589 (03O285892K) Vandevelde, LEO

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Need to differentiated between appendiceal and colorectal cancer.
Frozen section. Ileocaecal mass.
?Appendix Ca ?Colon Ca with peritoneal mets.
Peritoneum. Gallbladder. Spleen. Rt colon. Rectosigmoid. Small intestine. Omentum.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;ILEOCAECAL MASS&amp;quot;. Consists of a right hemicolectomy. There is a mass in fat at ileocaecal junction with involved nodes. No appendix identified. Frozen section from ?ulcer in terminal ileum and one lymph node.

F/S: &amp;quot;Adenocarcinoma with signet ring cell features. No appendix identified&amp;quot; per phone to Dr. C Blott by Dr. C. Eastlick on 1/1/67.

(CP1 frozen section 1; CP2 frozen section 2.

Further macroscopic decription after fixation. The specimen consists of a right hemicolecotmy specimen, with colon, measuring 135mm in length and 65mm in open-diameter. The ileum measures 62mm in length and 30mm in open diameter. There is up to 85mm of attached mesentery. There is a tumour present which appears to be based in the caecum, 30x20x20mm. It abuts the serosal surface as well as the black inked soft tissue, retrocaecal margin. It is located 50mm from the proximal margin and 100mm from the distal margin. The proximal and distal staple margins are inked green and removed. The retrocaecal soft tissue margin is inked black, and the roughened serosal surface overlying the other aspect of the caecum is inked blue. There are numerous serosal deposits, 1-3mm, throughout the specimen. The appendix cannot be identified.

(3 longitudinal proximal and distal margin; 4 first apical node; 5 second apical node, trisected; 6 third apical node; 7-9 composite section of tumour, show mucosa and serosa; 10 bisected longitudinal section from mucosa through the serosa; 11 tumour and black inked soft tissue margin; 12 serosal deposit; 13 tumour towards ileum ?continuation of tumour; 14 further section of tumour and serosa; 15 one lymph node; 16 one lymph node; 17 two possible lymph nodes or possible areas of serosal deposits; 18 one lymph node; 19 two serosal deposits; 20 one lymph node; 21 one lymph node). RS (M-21/ LK/cy)

B. &amp;quot;DIAPHRAGM, OMENTUM, PERITONEAL DISEASE, SPLEEN, SMALL BOWEL, COLON&amp;quot;.
There is a gallbladder, 80x40x15mm. The serosal surface is predominantly smooth and shiny with an area of brown discoloration 15mm in maximum extent, adjacent to the bare area. The cystic duct margin is inked blue. The mucosal surface is green and velvety and shows cholesterolosis. No gallstones are present. The average wall thickness is 2mm.

(1 shaved cystic duct margin TS of gallbladder body showing area of brown discoloration and LS fundus; 2 two adjacent sections to the cystic duct margin showing gallbladder neck and possible cystic duct node).

The spleen is present 105x65x15mm and has attached fatty tissue, presumed omentum, 150x100x80mm. The trimmed weight of spleen is 148g. There are pale fibrous thickened areas of the capsular surface of the spleen between the spleen and the adjacent fatty tissue ?tumour. The attached fatty tissue is firm to palpation and infiltrated by areas of white fibrous tissue ?suspicious for tumour in addition bright yellow areas ?fat necrosis.

(3-5 sections of spleen; 6&amp;amp;7 fatty tissue ?omentum and tumour).

There is a section of bowel, with circumferential ring of soft tissue at one end presumed to be rectum, 300mm in length and 45mm in opened circumference. There are fibrous adhesions between the presumed distal and proximal margins, causing the specimen U-shaped. Also attached to this specimen is mesentery up to 80mm in extent in addition to grey fibrous tissue ?peritoneum possibly including muscle also, 230x120x12mm. The presumed perirectal soft tissue margin is inked green. Sectioning reveals that there is a pale band of tumour connecting the rectum and more proximal bowel.

(8&amp;amp;9 composite section between rectum [B8] and more proximal bowel [B9]; 10 rectum, and tumour abutting green perirectal margin; 11 rectum and attached fibrous tissue and tumour; 12 two sections from attached fibrous tissue ?peritoneum and tumour).

Two further separate segments of colon, one measures 115mm in length, and 55mm in open circumference with up to 35mm of attached mesentery. The other measures  110mm in length, 60mm in open circumference with up to 30mm of attached mesentery. The first of these displays oedematous and haemorrhagic mucosa but no other significant abnormalities. The second of these also shows oedematous mucosa and possible peritoneal deposits.

(13 two sections of haemorrhagic oedematous mucosa and section of possible peritoneal disease from the first segment of bowel; 14 two sections of second segment of bowel showing peritoneal disease and underlying colonic mucosa).

There is a segment of small bowel 430mm in length and 55mm in open circumference. There are three sutured areas, which appear to be corresponding to defect in the small bowel wall, possibly iatrogenic or possible perforation.

(15 TS through each of the sutured areas; 16 section of peritoneal deposit and section of separate peritoneal deposits with underlying lymph nodes).

There is a further small segment of possible colon, 70mm in width and 30mm in length. There is a sutured line present along one edge 60mm in length.

(17 RS of this separate piece of possible colon).

The remaining pieces of tissue are unorientated pieces of fibroadipose tissue resembling parts of omentum and peritoneum 20-120mm in size and 280x240x40mm in aggregate. There are innumerable tumour deposits both on the surface of and within the areas of peritoneum and presumed omentum.

(18 three RS of peritoneal involvement; 19 tumour and peritoneum; 20 tumour and greater omentum [this is the designated block for tumour banking]). RS (M-20/LK/ht).

MACROSCOPIC FINDINGS SUMMARY
Operation type:  Right hemicolectomy (Specimen A) - Appendix not identified.
Specimen length:  165mm
Tumour site:  Caecum
Tumour size:  30x20x20mm (depth)
Distance from margins:
Proximal:  50mm
Distal:  100mm
Radial:  0mm, abuts black inked retrocaecal soft tissue margin
Peritoneal reflection:  ?not applicable
Extramuscular spread:  ~15mm
Tumour description:  Pale, exophytic and endophytic
Overlying serosa: Discoloured, puckered
Lymph nodes: Abnormal: suspicious: pale, firm, enlarged
Metastases: (Await Specimen B)
Comments on macro: Appendix not identified.

MICROSCOPIC    (Dr. C. Mcgaw)
A.  Sections show poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with glandular and signet ring differentiation arising in the region of the ileocaecal valve and extending right through colonic and ileal wall to involve the serosa and free mesothelial surface. The rest of the colonic wall shows no focal abnormality. The tumour shows extensive lymphovascular invasion. No large vein invasion is seen. Seven out of ten lymph nodes examined show metastatic adenocarcinoma. The apical lymph node is not involved by adenocarcinoma. Numerous deposits of extranodal adenocarcinoma are present within  the mesenteric fat. In addition there appears to be extension of the adenocarcinoma to the caecal soft tissue resection margin. The proximal and distal resection margins are clear of any lesions. Immunoperoxidase staining of the tumour shows positive staining with CK 20, CK 7, CDX2 and CEA.

B.
Sections show disseminated poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet ring and intestinal differentiation involving adipose tissue attached to gallbladder, splenic capsule including involvement of a splenic hilar lymph node, serosa of separately submitted segments of small bowel and colonic segment including colonic wall and submucosa.

Metastatic adenocarcinoma is also seen in separately submitted peritoneal fragments, omentum and subcutaneous tissues with overlying unremarkable skin. The gallbladder mucosa and wall show no focal abnormalities. The cystic duct lymph node is unremarkable. The colonic mucosa and small bowel mucosa show no focal abnormality. The splenic parenchyma is unremarkable.

Sections through gastric body shows metastatic adenocarcinoma involving adipose tissue attached to serosa without involvement of gastric wall.

COMMENT:
In view of the large ileocaecal mass, this may represent the primary tumour although the morphology is unusual. Origin from upper GI tract is also possible. Clinicopathological correlation is recommended.

DIAGNOSIS
ILEOCAECAL MASS:
- POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA WITH SIGNET RING AND INTESTINAL DIFFERENTIATION.
DIAPHRAGM, PERITONEAL DISEASE, SPLEEN, SMALL BOWEL COLON:
- POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA WITH SIGNET RING AND INTESTINAL DIFFERENTIATION INVOLVING OMENTUM, PERITONEUM, SPLENIC CAPSULE, SEGMENTS OF SMALL BOWEL AND COLON AND ADIPOSE TISSUE ATTACHED TO GALLBLADDER AND SEGMENT OF STOMACH.
6/2/2068 ht
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:
Immunostains for MSI proteins (MACQUARIE WARD NORMANTON HOSPITAL; block: A8)

MLH1:  	POSITIVE
PMS2: 	POSITIVE
MSH2: 	POSITIVE
MSH6: 	POSITIVE

Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme.

Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible.
