SPR no: 51B225583X
MRN no: 5102255
Site_name: CANTERBURY HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Pelvic mass for TAH/BSO + staging.  Bilateral ovarian cancer.  CA125 290.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a solid-cystic ovarian mass, 125 x 120 x 75mm, with fallopian tube 60 x 5 x 5mm.  There is an area of disruption as well as a 6mm nodule on the surface of the mass.  Approximately one-third of the mass appears solid.  The inner surface shows papillary projections.  Blocks 1 -  F/S with external nodule; 2 - F/S solid area; 3 &amp;amp; 4 - fallopian tube; 5-17 - RS ovarian mass.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a unilocular cystic mass, 110 x 90 x 70mm, with fallopian tube 58 x 5 x  5mm.  The external surface is smooth.  The inner lining shows papillary projections over approximately half the surface area.
Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - F/S mass; 3 &amp;amp; 4 - fallopian tube; 5 - 15 - RS ovarian mass.

FROZEN SECTION RESULT
A &amp;amp; B.  High grade adenocarcinoma, favour endometrioid, can&amp;apos;t exclude mucinous, recommend examining appendix and bowel.
Reported to Dr P Shimkus by Dr P Bronsky, Dr P Gaskin and Dr P Fothergill at 10:00hrs on 12.9.19.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus and cervix&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus and cervix weighing 66g in total.  The uterus is 72 x 40 x 30mm with a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix is 33 x 21mm.  The endometrium is 3mm in thickness and the myometrium is 14mm in thickness.  There are four fibroids, 5 to 22mm.  Blocks 1 - 4 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 5 &amp;amp; 6- largest anterior fibroid; 7-9 - full LS of posterior body and cervix; 10- posterior fibroid.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right paracolic gutter&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue, 9 x 6 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left paracolic gutter&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue, 13 x 7 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Sigmoid fat&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue, 19 x 15 x 3mm.  No lesions or lymph nodes are identified.  AE 1 block.

G.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Pouch of Douglas peritoneum&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue, 13 x 9 x 6mm.  BAE 1 block.

H.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Appendix&amp;quot;, consists of an appendix 55mm in length with a diameter up to 8mm, and attached mesoappendix up to 20mm in width.  The serosal surface is smooth and glistening.  No focal lesions identified.  Block 1- tip; 2 &amp;amp; 3- central TS; 4 - base.  Appendix AE.

I.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Small bowel mesentery&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of brown fibroadipose tissue, 29 x 7 x 6mm. BAE 1 block.

J.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left external iliac lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue, 52 x 27 x 8mm.  Three lymph nodes are identified, 10 to 24mm.
Block 1- two lymph nodes; 2- one lymph node.

K.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left obturator lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue, 25 x 9 x 8mm.  A possible 20mm lymph node is identified.  Block 1 - one lymph node.

L.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left common iliac lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of two pieces of fibroadipose tissue, 23 x 15 x 10mm in aggregate.  Three possible lymph nodes are identified, 4 to 17mm. Block 1- multiple lymph nodes; 2- one lymph node bisected.

M.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right external iliac lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of two pieces of fibroadipose tissue, 33 x 20 x 12mm in aggregate.  Three possible lymph nodes are identified, 10 to 19mm. Block 1- multiple lymph nodes.

N.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left precava para-aortic lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue, 20 x 16 x 8mm. Two possible lymph nodes are identified, 15 and 8mm.
Block 1- two lymph nodes.

O.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left preaortic lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node, 14 x 9 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.

P.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left high preaortic lymph node&amp;quot;.  The specimen jar contains no tissue. This was verified with a second staff member.  No blocks taken.

Q.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of a piece of omentum, 215 x 83 x 6mm.  No lymph nodes or lesions are identified.  RS 3 blocks.   (TO:SW/ec 17/10/69)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr P Faragoza):
A.  The sections of the right ovarian mass show high grade serous carcinoma.  The carcinoma contains complex slit-like glands, as well as solid, papillary and micropapillary patterns.  There is marked cytologic atypia.  In some areas, the tumour papillae are lined by palisaded columnar cells, reminiscent of an endometrioid tumour.  The fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality.

B.  The sections of the left ovarian mass show high grade serous carcinoma.  The tumour is composed of complex papillae and anastomosing cribriform glands lined by cells with marked cytologic atypia.  The fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality.

C.  The ectocervix and endocervix show no significant abnormality.  The endometrium is inactive.  The myometrium shows leiomyomas.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

D to G.  The sections show fibroadipose tissue.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

H.  The entire appendix has been embedded and shows no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

I.  The sections of the small bowel mesentery show granulation tissue and organising scar tissue.  There is no evidence of malignancy.

J.  The sections from the left external iliac lymph node show three negative lymph nodes (0/3).  There is no evidence of malignancy.

K.  The sections from the left obturator lymph node show one negative lymph node (0/1).  There is no evidence of malignancy.

L.  The sections from the left common iliac lymph node show three negative lymph nodes (0/3).  There is no evidence of malignancy.

M.  The sections from the right external iliac lymph node show three negative lymph nodes (0/3).  There is no evidence of malignancy.

N.  The sections from the left precaval para-aortic lymph node show two negative lymph nodes (0/2).  There is no evidence of malignancy.

O.  The sections from the left preaortic lymph node show one negative lymph node (0/1).  There is no evidence of malignancy.

P.  No tissue found in the specimen container.

Q.  The sections of the omentum show one negative lymph node (0/1).  There is no evidence of malignancy.


DIAGNOSIS:
A &amp;amp; B.  Bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes:  Bilateral high grade serous ovarian carcinomas.
C.  Uterus and cervix:  Leiomyomas.
D to I.  Right and left paracolic gutter, sigmoid fat, pouch of Douglas peritoneum, appendix, and small bowel mesentery:  No evidence of malignancy.
J to P.  Bilateral external iliac, left obturator, common iliac, precava para-aortic, preaortic and high preaortic lymph nodes:  Thirteen negative lymph nodes (0/13).
Q.  Omentum:  No evidence of malignancy.  One negative lymph node (0/1).
