SPR no: 07P590398L
MRN no: 075590
Site_name: CORRIGIN HOSPITAL
Facility_id: MR
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportFURTHER REPORT (Dr B Hillseth  29/1/2066) immunostains

07P59039,07P59039 (07P590398L) Myslim, ROSIO
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:
HISTORY:
Ovarian mass CA 125 = 137.  Peritoneal washings for cytology.  Frozen section - uterus, bilateral tubes and bilateral ovaries.  Left pelvic lymph node, appendix, omentum.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;UTERUS, BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES&amp;quot;.  Ovarian mass solid and cystic weighing 600g, partially ruptured capsule 130x110x80mm.  Samples taken from solid area. (1&amp;amp;2  frozen section).

Frozen section report: Dr B Titzer &amp;quot;Difficult lesion.  Tubules with eosinophilic secretion and poorly differentiated areas with diffuse infiltrate of ovoid cells.  Necrosis.  ?Sex cord stromal tumour.  ?granulosa cell tumour or sertoli leydig cell tumour.  Unusual for met colorectal carcinoma.  Not typical of epithelial tumour&amp;quot;.  Results phoned to Dr. Robertson at 6:15pm on 15.11.2016 by Dr. B. Marley. (

The specimen consists of a hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen.  The cervix and uterus measures 60x35x30mm.  The cervix measures up to 35mm in length, 25mm from left to right with a 5mm slit-like os. The endometrium measures 1mm in thickness and the myometrium up to 16mm maximally posteriorly. Serial sections through the uterus does not reveal any focal lesions. The right fallopian tube measures 35mm in length and is up to 6mm in width.  The right ovary measures 25x10x15mm.  The left fallopian tube measures 55mm in length and up to 9mm in width.  Attached there is an ovarian mass measuring up to 130x140x80mm.  The overlying serosal surface of the left ovarian mass is smooth with nodular areas.  The cut surface of the ovary reveals partly cystic as well as solid areas.  The lesion is disrupted posteriorly with a disruption area measuring up to 50mm in diameter. There is adherent tumour to the posterior aspect of the uterus with invasion into posterior uterine wall (5 mm) and there is a separate overlying area of adherent fat 50 mm diameter anteriorly of the left ovarian mass.
(3 cervix; 4 anterior endomyometrium; 5 posterior endomyometrium; 6 sections of right ovary; 7 sections of right fallopian tube; 8 right fimbrial end all embedded; 9 tumour and posterior uterus; 10 left fallopian tube; 11 left fimbrial end of fallopian tube all embedded; 12-18 are of the tumor [12&amp;amp;13 tumour with overlying fat, 14 central portion of tumour, 15-18 peripheral edge of tumour]; 19&amp;amp;20 cystic component wall).  RS (M-20)
Further: A21 granulation uterus fundus surface; 22,23 disrupted area of tumour adherent posterior uterus; 24 edge of disrupted area of tumour; 25,26,27 multicystic area with firm colloid-like contents; 28,29 adherent disc of adipose tissue anterior surface of mass; 30,31,32 soft tumour around necrotic cystic area; LV
B.  &amp;quot;LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;.  Consists of predominantly fatty tissue measuring 20x20x5mm containing one lymph node measuring 6x3x3mm.
(1 one lymph node; 2 residual fat). AE (M-2)
C.  &amp;quot;APPENDIX&amp;quot;.  Consists of a vermiform appendix 50mm in length, 6mm in width with up to 15mm of mesoappendix attached at the tip. The serosal surface is smooth and shiny.
(1 tip and one TS; 2 base and one TS).  RS (4-2)
D.  &amp;quot;OMENTUM&amp;quot;. Consists of a piece of omentum measuring up to 155x60mm and up to 20mm in thickness. There are no palpable lymph nodes or nodules on the omental surface.  Sampled sections as omental rolls in blocks D1-3.  RS (3-3/MY 22/2/2065 ank)
MICROSCOPIC:   B Cotten  cy
A. UTERUS, BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES

Left ovary mass:
The frozen sections were difficult to assess, and not contributory, with the diagnosis at frozen section uncertain. The paraffin sections show a partly solid and partly cystic ovarian epithelial tumour. There are areas with a sex-cord/stromal like growth pattern. The more solid area show endometrioid carcinoma with a dense fibrous stroma. The larger cyst locules have nonspecific appearance mainly mucinous lining. The softer and partly necrotic areas within the mass show poorly differentiated endometrioid adenocarcinoma with sarcomatous stroma (carcinosarcoma), with focal chondrosarcomatous heterologous differentiation. There is tumour necrosis and there is perivascular sparing of tumour. The epithelial areas and sarcomatous areas both have brisk mitotic activity (50 mitoses /10 hpf).

The tumour does not appear to involve the surface of the ovary.

The disrupted area described macroscopically has tumour exposed to the open disrupted surface.

The carcinoma invades into the posterior myometrial wall in the area where the tumour is adherent (depth of invasion into myometrium is appropriately 6 mm), and invades focally into attached adipose tissue over what appeared to be the anterior surface.

No lymphovascular invasion.

Excision margins (paracervical, anterior attached fat) are negative for tumour.

Immunostains. (blocks A14, A19):
The tumour stains with keratin CK7 and PAX8. CK7 stains most area of the tumour (3+) including moderately differentiated epithelial areas and poorly differentiated areas and there is some probable positive staining in sarcomatoid areas.
The undifferentiated areaS shows weak staining with Cam 5.2.
Inhibin and calretinin show very focal weak positive staining of uncertain significance
TTF-1 shows focal positive (3+) staining in a small area of the poorly differentiated area of the tumour. The larger cyst locules are TTF1 negative.
WT-1 is negative.
ER and PR are negative, p53 shows nonspecific mainly negative staining

Other tissues:
Ectocervical mucosa is atrophic.
Endocervical mucosa is normal.
The endometrium is inactive and atrophic.
The uterine surface shows some fibrous adhesions.
There is occasional endosalphingiosis. No endometriosis seen.
Left and right fallopian tubes shows no abnormality.
Right ovary shows some surface adhesions.

B. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Two lymph nodes are present. No tumour seen.

C. APPENDIX
The appendix shows no lesions.

D. OMENTUM
The omentum shows no tumour involvement.

COMMENT:
I have shown sections of the left ovary tumour to other pathologists in the department who agree with the diagnosis.

DIAGNOSIS:
A. UTERUS, BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES
- Left ovary:  Ovarian carcinosarcoma (high grade) with heterologous chondrosarcomatous differentation, with a component of moderately differentiated endometroid adenocarcinoma.
- areas with sex-cord/stromal like growth pattern
- Tumour invades into posterior uterus myometrium and into attached fat over what appears to be anterior surface of mass
- negative local excision margins
- Tumour surface partly disrupted at receipt.

B. LEFT PELVIC LYMPH NODE
Two lymph nodes are present, no tumour seen.

C. APPENDIX
The appendix shows no lesions.

D. OMENTUM
The omentum shows no tumour involvement.
- - - -
FURTHER REPORT (Dr B Dibella  1/2/2068)

Further immunostains, block A14:
EMA: Positive in epithelial areas, negative in sarcomatous areas

Mismatch repair proteins (MMRP), immunostains, block: A14
MLH1: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
PMS2: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
MSH2: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression
MSH6: Normal/preserved mismatch repair protein expression

Comment:
Mismatch repair proficient tumour. Above diagnosis unchanged.
