SPR no: 72S826441I
MRN no: 1983466
Site_name: TINGHA MULTIPURPOSE SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
79 yo with pelvic mass, underwent modified radical hysterectomy / BSO / diaphragm stripping.  Tissue for histopath:  1.  Pelvic washings / ascites - cytology; 2.  Uterus, cervix, bilateral ovaries / tubes, 3.  Right pelvic node, 4.  Left pelvic node, 5.  Right paracolic cyst, 6.  Appendix.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 578g in total.  The uterus measures 63 x 40 x 30mm and has a smooth shiny posterior serosal surface but anteriorly there is a large nodular mass, 140 x 95 x 80mm. The ectocervix measures 33 x 24mm and has an unremarkable surface.  The mass attached to anterior uterus extends to the left lateral aspect.  The right ovary and fallopian tube are uninvolved, the right ovary is 20 x 10 x 6mm and the right fallopian tube is 29 x 5mm.  The left ovary is also uninvolved, 20 x 9 x 6mm but the left fallopian tube is intimately associated with the mass at the fimbrial end and the fallopian tube is 54 x 5mm.  The anterior paracervical tissue is inked blue, the posterior is inked black, and the external surface of the anteriorly located tumour is inked green.  On sectioning, the endometrium is 2mm thick with no focal lesions and the myometrium is up to 16mm thick with up to six fibroids, which are up to 8mm in diameter.  The anterior nodular lesion has a soft centre with red discolouration ? necrosis.  It is attached to but does not overtly invade into the myometrium.
Blocks: 1 - right fallopian tube fimbrial end; 2 - right fallopian tube four TS; 3 &amp;amp; 4 - right ovary bisected; 5 &amp;amp; 6 - left fallopian tube six TS; 7 &amp;amp; 8 - left ovary bisected; 9 to 11 - full longitudinal section of posterior uterine body and cervix; 12 - largest posterior uterine fibroid; 13 to 17- full longitudinal section of anterior uterine body and cervix (junction with anterior mass in blocks 15 &amp;amp; 17); 18 &amp;amp; 19 - two further sections of junction between mass and anterior uterus; 20 to 22 -  three sections of mass with involved fimbrial end of left fallopian tube; 23 to 32 -  RS of anterior mass.  All of the ovaries and fallopian tubes embedded.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right pelvic node&amp;quot;, consists of two unoriented fibrofatty tissue, 14 x 11 x 6mm in aggregate.  Two possible lymph nodes are identified, 4 and 6mm.
Blocks: 1 - two ? lymph nodes.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left pelvic node&amp;quot;, consists of a 23 x 7 x 6mm unoriented fibrofatty tissue.  One possible 8mm lymph node is identified.
Blocks: 1 - one ? lymph node.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right paracolic cyst&amp;quot;, consists of a 39 x 30 x 19mm unoriented grey tan tissue, one half of which is involved by a 27 x 19 x 19mm cystic lesion with a smooth external surface.  Slices show adjacent to the cystic lesion is a solid component extending into the rest of the specimen, 14 x 9 x 9mm.  The cyst itself has a smooth inner lining though at the junction with the solid component there is a papillary projection up to 6mm in thickness.
Blocks: 1 to 4 - three slices (1 and 2 is one slice bisected).

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Appendix&amp;quot;, consists of a 36mm appendix, 5mm in diameter with attached mesoappendix up to 17mm in width.  The serosal surface is smooth and mildly congested.   Base is inked blue.  The cut surface of the appendix is normal.
Blocks: 1 - tip; 2 - three central TS; 3 - base.  All of the appendix embedded.

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Small bowel serosa&amp;quot;, consists of four dark brown irregular pieces of tissue, 1 to 2mm.  All embedded in 1 block.

G.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Liver serosa&amp;quot;, consists of two unoriented grey tan tissue, 12 to 16mm maximum dimension.  All embedded in 1 block.

H.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Diaphragmatic cyst&amp;quot;, consists of multiple irregular pieces of pale tan tissue consistent with disrupted cyst wall, 54 x 33 x 6mm in aggregate.  The components of cyst wall have a smooth surface and thickness of 1 to 2mm.  There is attached fibrous tissue at one end.
Blocks: 1 - fibrous tissue; 2 &amp;amp; 3 - RS of cyst wall.

I.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of a 350 x 60 x 6mm unoriented piece of fatty tissue consistent with omentum.  No lesions or lymph nodes are identified.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.
(TO:SW/eh 17/11/65)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr D Reap):
A. Sections show high-grade serous carcinoma, arising from serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma of the left fallopian tube. The invasive lesion has a mixed solid, cystic and papillary architecture. There are diffuse sheets of tumour cells with enlarged, pleomorphic nuclei and prominent nucleoli. Intracytoplasmic vacuoles and slit-like glandular spaces are seen. Tumour is present on the inked surface of the specimen. The tumour is adherent to the anterior uterine body, where focal invasion into the myometrium is present (A15).

Both ovaries and fallopian tubes have been all embedded. Serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma is present in the fimbria of the left fallopian tube, in continuity with the invasive tumour (A21). The right fallopian tube and both ovaries show no evidence of malignancy.

The endometrium shows cystic atrophy with no evidence of malignancy.  Benign leiomyomas are present in the myometrium. The cervix shows no evidence of HPV effect, CIN or malignancy.

B. Sections show 2 lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy.

C. Sections show one lymph node with no evidence of malignancy.

D. Sections show fat and fibrous tissue with high-grade serous carcinoma with a mixed solid and cystic architecture.

E. The appendix shows fibrous obliteration of the lumen. There is no evidence of malignancy.

F. Sections show serosa with vascular congestion, chronic inflammation and mesothelium hyperplasia. There is no evidence of malignancy.

G. Sections show high-grade serous carcinoma.

H. Sections show fibrous with high-grade serous carcinoma with a mixed solid and cystic architecture.

I. Sections show omental fat with no evidence of malignancy. Chronic inflammation, vascular congestion and mesothelial hyperplasia are present.


DIAGNOSIS:
A. Uterus and cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries:
- High-grade serous carcinoma, arising from serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma of the left fallopian tube fimbria
- Right fallopian tube and bilateral ovaries with no evidence of malignancy
- Focal invasion into myometrium of the anterior uterine body
B. Right pelvic lymph nodes: 2 lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy
C. Left pelvic lymph node: no evidence of malignancy
D, G and H. Right paracolic cyst, liver serosa and diaphragmatic cyst: high-grade serous carcinoma
E, F and I. Appendix, small bowel serosa and omentum: no evidence of malignancy
