SPR no: 10U001527G
MRN no: 1080015
Site_name: NUMURKAH DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Large pelvic mass 24cm (septate on CT).  CA 125 = 38.  Right tube plus ovary.  Pelvic adhesions, left fallopian tubes and ovary, appendix, omental biopsy.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right tube plus ovary&amp;quot;, consists of multicystic mass measuring, 220 x 130 x 60mm.  No obvious tube seen.  The serosal surface of the mass is intact with a focal area of suture repair.  Cut surface is multicystic with a minor component of papillary excrescences less than 5%.  Two sections sampled for frozen sections.  The fallopian tube measures 50mm with an outer diameter of 54mm.  All of the papillary excrescences embedded.
Blocks 1 - frozen section one; 2 - frozen section two; 3 to 22 - further representative sections; 23 &amp;amp; 24 - all of fallopian tube.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a fallopian tube and attached ovary.  The fallopian tube measures, 45mm in length with an outer diameter of 4mm.  The ovary measures, 30 x 15 x 7mm.  Cut surface shows ovary is unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - RS of fallopian tube; 3 - RS of ovary.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omental biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of fatty tissue measuring, 55 x 40 x 30mm.  Cut surface shows uniform fatty tissue.  RS 3 blocks.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Pelvic adhesions&amp;quot;, consists of a single pale tan tissue measuring, 35 x 15 x 6mm.  Serially sectioned and embedded in 2 blocks.  AE.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Appendix&amp;quot;, consists of an appendix measuring, 70mm in length with an outer diameter of 5mm.  Mesoappendix measures up to 15mm.  The serosal surface of appendix appears congested.  Cut surface shows a patent lumina.  All appendiceal tissue embedded except the appendiceal fat.
Blocks: 1 - LS of base; 2 - TS; 3 - LS of tip.    (TO:LM/rs 16/9/66)


FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A.  Benign serous cyst adenoma.
Phone results to Gynae fellow by Dr E Simitian at 12:10 on 12/7/15.


MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr E Kulling)
A.  Sections of the right ovarian lesion show a serous cystadenofibroma. There are scattered broad papillary projections, however, no micropapillary change, significant atypia or mitotic activity is seen. There is no borderline change. The fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality. There is no evidence of malignancy.

B.  Sections of the left ovary and fallopian tube show no significant histologic abnormality. There is no evidence of malignancy.

C.  Sections show fragments of mature fibroadipose tissue. There are no atypical features. There is no evidence of malignancy.

D.  Sections show fragments of fibrovascular tissue with mild overlying mesothelial cell hyperplasia. The features would be in keeping with focal adhesions. There are no atypical features. There is no evidence of malignancy.

E.  The appendix has been examined in its entirety. The appendiceal lumen is expanded by a faecolith. There is no evidence of acute appendicitis. No pathogenic organisms or granulomas are identified. There is no evidence of malignancy.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right ovary and fallopian tube: Serous cystadenofibroma.

B.  Left ovary and fallopian tube: No evidence of malignancy.

C.  Omental tissue: No evidence of malignancy.

D.  Pelvic adhesions: No evidence of malignancy.

E.  Appendix: Faecolith. No evidence of appendicitis or malignancy.
