SPR no: 65P1377297
MRN no: 6561377
Site_name: GEORGE TOWN HOSPITAL AND COMMUNITY CENTRE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report65P13772 (65P1377297) MAUSS, CORDELL

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
mesenteric lymph node. (peritonectomy). Frozen section, low grade appendix tumour (PMP) peritonectomy, peritoneum, spleen, gallbladder, distal stomach, right colon and appendix tumour. Rectosigmoid.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;MESENTERY LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;. Two pieces of soft smooth pale tissue 6mm and 5mm in maximum extent. 3/4 for frozen section.

F/S: &amp;quot;Benign reactive lymph nodes&amp;quot;. Reported by Dr Q Nachtrieb to anaesthetist at 2.10pm on 21.5.15.

(1 frozen; 2 remainder tissue).AE (M-2).

B. &amp;quot;SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, RIGHT COLON, RECTOSIGMOID COLON, RIGHT AND LEFT DIAPHRAM, PERITONEUM, STOMACH&amp;quot;. Received multiple fragments of tissue which appear extensively involved by disseminated mucinous deposits on their serosal surface. These fragments include:

A right hemicolectomy specimen including a terminal ileum measuring 100mm in length x 35mm and attached caecum, ascending colon with a total length of 130mm and up to 75mm in circumference. Mesentery and mesocolon are attached along the specimen to a maximum width of 70mm. The specimen has an attached piece of peritoneum and adjacent omentum measuring 100x30mm. The outer surface is disrupted but there is a mucinous mass at the caecal wall appearing to be closely associated with  the appendiceal stump (possible appendix) measuring  80x50mm. On sectioning of the appendiceal stump the cut surface of the appendix id cystic and filled with mucinous material. The mucinous lesion appears to be involving the mesentery, the serosal surface of the terminal ileum and attached mesocolon. The remainder of the mucosal surface of the bowel is smooth with no polyps or tumours identified.

(1 proximal resection margin; 2 distal resection margin; 3&amp;amp;4 continuous piece with 3 being appendiceal stump and caecum; 4 cystic space proximal ?appendix; 5&amp;amp;6 continuous piece appendiceal stump with proximal appendix; 7&amp;amp;8 full face of the mucinous mass in relation to the terminal ileum mucosa; 9 RS mucinous area at mesentery and mesocolon; 10 apical lymph node bisected; 11 four lymph nodes; 12 five lymph nodes).

A partial gastrectomy specimen measuring  130mm in length and up to 110mm in circumference. The outer serosal surface includes multiple (mucinous deposit) largest measuring 30x20x5mm. The wall of the stomach is up to 10mm thick and is slightly oedematous. The mucosal surface is unremarkable.

(13&amp;amp;14 LS of longitudinal resection margins; 15&amp;amp;16 RS serosal nodules).

Received a rectosigmoid specimen measuring  135mm in length and up to 40mm in circumference with  attached mesocolon and mesorectum to a maximum width of 40mm. Also attached fibrous tissue consistent with peritoneum measuring 200x120x10mm. The distal 65mm of the specimen is below the anterior peritoneal reflection. The attached peritoneum and the anterior peritoneal reflection is extensively involved by solid mucinous deposits that also involves the mesocolonic fat extensively with  the largest deposit of these mucinous areas measuring  50x45mm. The mucosal surface appears to be smooth and unremarkable with no polyps or tumours identified. The mesorectal radial resection margin is inked black.

(17 proximal resection margin one LS: 18 LS of distal resection margin with adjacent mucinous lesion in the mesorectum; 19&amp;amp;20 continuous piece TS across the rectum with  the adjacent radial resection margin; 21 RS mesocolon mucinous nodule; 22 RS nodule in the attached peritoneum).

A gallbladder measuring 80x35mm. The outer surface is green and has multiple (up to five mucinous deposits), the largest measuring  50x10x10mm. The wall is 3mm thick. Appears to be infiltrated by the mucinous deposit at the body and fundus with no definite mucosal deposit. No calculi are identified.

(23 cystic duct and TS neck; 24 TS body with  overlying nodule; 25 LS fundus with overlying nodule).

Received a spleen with attached omental cake that are both extensively involved by mucinous deposits and serosal mucinous changes. The spleen measures 140x90x40mm, the attached omentum measures 200x90x70mm. Attached there is a piece of peritoneum measuring 190x60x10mm. The cut surface reveals a thickened mucinous splenic capsule up to 12mm thick. The mucinous change also involves the fatty tissue at the splenic hilum.

(26 peripheral spleen; 27 spleen at hilum; 28 peritoneum deposit; 29&amp;amp;30 RS omental cake).

Received two pieces of fibrofatty tissue with extensive mucinous change (omental cake) measuring 270x150x40mm and 150x105x100mm. The cut surface confirms confluent mucinous consistency across the specimen.

(31-33 RS omental cake).

Received multiple fibrous tissue consistent peritonium which are extensively involved by mucinous deposits. Largest fragment measures  220x155x10mm. The remainder measures 270x180x70mm in aggregate.

(34&amp;amp;15 RS largest fragments; 36&amp;amp;37 RS remainder fragments). RS (M-37/ZH/ht).

MICROSCOPIC:     (Dr Q Campoverde)
A. Sections show a reactive lymph node with no evidence of malignancy.

B. The appendix is dilated and the mucosa is replaced by hyperplastic mucinous villous epithelium resting on the muscularis mucosa. Mucin tracks through the wall of the appendix onto the serosal surface. There are lakes of mucin towards the serosa which are lined by mucinous and columnar epithelium. The lakes contain a few small nests of low grade epithelial cells with scattered goblet cells. The nuclei are all low grade and and basal and range from small round nuclei to elongated cigar-shaped nuclei. The mucin lakes transect into the serosa of the terminal ileum and involve the serosal surface in this area. The proximal and distal right hemicolectomy resection margins are not involved.  Eight lymph nodes are identified including the apical lymph node which are all negative for malignancy.

The stomach antral and body type mucosa shows mild chronic gastritis. The serosa of the stomach shows mucin lakes similar to the right hemicolectomy specimen. These mucin lakes contain occasional nests of low grade epithelial and goblet cells.

Mucin lakes are also present tracking into the mesorectum and they are lined by low grade epithelial cells. The closest is 2.5mm clear of the distal resection margin and they abut the radial resection margin, separated from the margin by thin strands of collagenous tissue. The surface of the attached peritoneum also shows similar mucin lakes lined by low grade epithelium. The mucosa of the large bowel is unremarkable.

The mucosa of the gallbladder is unremarkable. The serosa shows mucin lakes lined by low grade epithelium.

The splenic capsule is surrounded by mucin lakes some of which are lined by low grade mucinous epithelium. The spleen parenchyma is unremarkable. The peritoneum shows similar surface mucinous deposits.

The omentum is largely replaced by lakes of mucin, some of which contain small islands of mucinous cells and some partly lined by mucinous epithelium. In one slice there is liver parenchyma with the liver capsule involved by mucin lakes. Two lymph nodes are identified in the mesentery which are unremarkable. There are two foci 2.5mm and 2.6mm across (B21, B37) within the omental tissue which show small nests of low grade epithelium surrounded by altered desmoplastic-type stroma which is equivocal for invasion (and may represent stromal reaction to extravasated mucin).

There are no high grade epithelial features, no signet ring cells and no invasive malignancy in any of the examined sections.

COMMENT:
The omentum shows two microscopic foci (2.5mm and 2.6mm) of questionable invasion by low-grade epithelial cells.  These foci are equivocal and may represent true invasion or stromal reaction to extravasated mucin.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. MESENTERY LYMPH NODE:
- NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY

B. SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, RIGHT COLON, RECTOSIGMOID COLON, RIGHT AND LEFT DIAPHRAGM, PERITONEUM, STOMACH:
- LOW GRADE APPENDICEAL MUCINOUS NEOPLASM (LAMN)
- EIGHT LYMPH NODES WITH NO MALIGNANCY
- LOW GRADE MUCINOUS CARCINOMA PERITONEI (DISSEMINATED 			PERITONEAL ADENOMUCINOSIS)
- INVOLVES THE ILEUM, STOMACH, MESORECTUM, GALLBLADDER, SPLENIC 		CAPSULE, LIVER CAPSULE, OMENTUM AND LEFT AND RIGHT DIAPHRAGM
- TWO SMALL FOCI OF EQUIVOCAL INVASION (SEE COMMENT)
- NO SIGNET RING CELLS
