SPR no: 49L810585K
MRN no: 4948105
Site_name: EASTERN EYRE HEALTH AND AGED CARE - KIMBA CAMPUS
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
TAH BSO for adnexal mass.  ?Ovarian Ca.  Ca 125: 440 left ovarian mass.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of an ovary with a pale grey, smooth surface, 150 x 130 x 100mm.  There is an attached fallopian tube, 50 x 8 x 8mm.  On sectioning, the ovary is predominately solid (approximately 80%), with a minor multicystic component.  The solid areas have a tan appearance, with a few scattered pale yellow regions.  Two representative sections taken for frozen section from different solid areas.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section (tan solid area); 2 - frozen section two (tan and pale yellow solid/cystic area); 3 to 15 - further representative tissue; 16 - LS complete fimbrial end fallopian tube, and mid TS.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus, cervix, left tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, left fallopian tube, and left ovary, weighing 140g in total.  The uterus measures 10 x 70 x 45mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 40 x 26mm and shows no significant abnormality.  On sectioning, the endometrium measures 1 to 2mm in maximum thickness, and the myometrium measures 24mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium contains numerous fibroids measuring up to 23mm in maximum dimension.  The fibroids have a pale grey, whorled appearance.  The largest fibroid shows evidence of degenerative change; there is no necrosis.  There is possible adenomyosis.  The left fallopian tube, 55 x 5 x 4mm, is grey and smooth and shows no significant pathology.  The left ovary, 20 x 16 x 12mm, shows no significant pathology.
Blocks: 1 to 5 - mid line LS anterior uterus and cervix; 6 - anterior myometrium including fibroid and possible adenomyosis; 7 - largest fibroid, degenerative change; 8 to 12 - mid line LS posterior uterus and cervix; 13 - LS complete fimbrial end left fallopian tube, and mid TS; 14 - left ovary.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omental biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of omental tissue, 70 x 45 x 13mm.  The specimen has a smooth and glistening surface.  On thin sectioning, no tumour or lymph nodes are identified.  RS 3 blocks.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Appendix&amp;quot;, consists of a vermiform appendix, 50 x 5 x 5mm, with attached mesoappendix, up to 20mm in width.   The serosal surface of the appendix is smooth and pale grey.  On sectioning, the wall thickness is 1mm and the distal tip is partly cystic. The complete appendix is embedded.
Blocks: 1 - LS complete distal tip; 2 - LS complete proximal end; 3 &amp;amp; 4 - mid TS.
(TO:JB/ta 8/7/68)


FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenofibroma (serous and mucinous).
Result to Anaesthetist (Dr Hiram) by Dr L Ostroot at 10:45 on 6/6/15.


MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr L Dicola)
A.  The right ovary has been extensively sampled. Paraffin embedded sections show features consistent with a borderline endometrioid adenofibroma of ovary. The fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality. There is no evidence of malignancy. Representative slides seen with Dr L Petr.

B.  The ectocervix and endocervix show no significant abnormality.  The endometrium shows cystic atrophy, progestational change and patchy mild non-specific chronic inflammation. The myometrium shows adenomyosis and multiple leiomyomas, one of which shows extensive infarction. The left ovary shows a serous cystadenofibroma. The left fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality. There is no evidence of malignancy.

C.  Sections of omentum show mature adipose tissue. There are no atypical features. There is no evidence of malignancy.

D.  The appendix has been examined in its entirety. The appendiceal tip shows endometriosis. The appendix also shows fibrous obliteration of the appendiceal tip. There is no evidence of acute appendicitis. No pathogenic organisms or granulomas are identified. There is no evidence of malignancy.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right ovary and fallopian tube: Borderline endometrioid adenofibroma.

B.  Uterus, cervix, left ovary and fallopian tube: Progestational endometrium with cystic atrophy; adenomyosis and leiomyoma(s) and left ovarian serous cystadenofibroma.

C.  Omental biopsy: No significant histologic abnormality.

D.  Appendix: Fibrous obliteration of the appendiceal tip and endometriosis.
