Episode No:  63F711591F
6327115.YEF

Maggi, RUSSELL KELSI MEREDITH 
Lab No:  63F71159
Bautista
SUFFOLK PARK  ACT  3815
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  1/1/2020
Sex:  F
Collected: 28/10/2063 at :
Location:  Pathology North - BRAIDWOOD MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
DR RUFUS Seckler
Distribution:   FILE-COPY, DR Larry,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
47 year old woman with grade 2 adenocarcinoma.  However at surgery tumour seems to be endocervical than endometrial.  Please do ER and PR and appropriate stains to help differentiate between endometrial and endocervical origin.   
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus tubes ovaries", consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries weighing 156g, and detached fragments of necrotic tumour.  The uterus measures 100 x 50 x 40mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The serosa of the left posterior lower segment serosa has a full thickness defect 15 x 15mm, with tumour exuding through.  The ectocervix measures45 x 35mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 3mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 18mm in maximum thickness.  The endometrium has an exophytic tan tumour which is located in the lower uterine segment, 10mm from the cervical os, 40mm from the left cornu and 40mm from the right cornu.  The tumour is circumferential and measures 70 x 40 x 25mm thick.  The tumour has perforated through the serosa posteriorly on the left.  Inferiorto the tumour, along the cervical lips, the ectocervix appears buckled and roughened.  The right fallopian tube measures 52mm in length x 10 x 10mm in maximum dimension.  The right ovary measures 32 x 28 x 20mm and there is a rupturedcystic structure within the ovary which measures 18 x 8 x 15mm.  The cystic area has a smooth external surface and the internal surface has multiple papillary projections into the cystic space.  The left fallopian tube measures 45mm in length x 8 x 7mm in maximum dimension.  The left ovary is 40 x 20 x 15mm and has two smooth lined cysts measuring from 5 and 10mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix; 4 and 5 - TS through left lateral anterior tumour and serosa; 6 to 9 and 10 to 13 - two full longitudinal sections of posterior body and cervix; 14 to 16 - TS through tumour and area of perforation through to serosa; 17- right fallopian tube; 18 to 22 - right ovary AE; 23 - left fallopian tube; 24 to 29 - left ovary AE; 30 - tumour reserve block.

B.  Specimen labelled "Right, ileac nodes", consists of a nodular tan piece of tissue measuring 5 x 3 x 3mm.  One 5mm lymph node is identified. AE 1 block. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Left pelvic nodes", consists of three pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 35, 15 and 10mm in maximum dimension.  There are four lymph nodes identifiedfrom 2 to 10mm in maximum dimension.  AE 2 blocks. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Left pelvic peritoneum", consists of a tan piece of tissue measuring 20 x 10 x 5mm.  AE 1 block. 
E.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 90 x 50 x 10mm and 35 x 20 x 5mm.  There are firm nodular areas within the omentum from 5 to 20mm in maximum dimension.  Representative in 3 blocks.
(TO: KB;EY/vo 29.10.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Barsness):
A.  Sections show a grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the lower uterine segment.  Maximum depth of myometrial invasion is 8mm out of total myometrial thickness of 8mm, with tumour fungating out through the serosa (block A16).  Some of the tumour is composed of clear cells but this is interpreted as clear cell change in an endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  No good evidence of a clear cell carcinoma is seen.  There is lymphovascular invasion in the myometrium.  There isstromal invasion of the upper endocervix.  The ectocervical excision margins are well clear of tumour.  The uterus does not show any other significant abnormality.  
IMMUNOSTAINS:  
Oestrogen receptor:  Positive.  75% of tumour cells show positive staining.  
                                  Predominant staining intensity - moderate.
Progesterone receptor:  Negative.  
Vimentin:  Positive.
CEA:  Patchy positive.  
p16:  Patchy positive.  
MSI STAINS:
MLH1 - Preserved nuclear staining.
PMS2 - Preserved nuclear staining. 
MSH2 - Loss of nuclear staining.  
MSH6 - Loss of nuclear staining.  
Loss of nuclear staining of a carcinoma for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of germline mutation or somatic inactivationof that mismatch repair gene.  
The appearance of the uterine tumour, together with the immunoprofile (Vimentin positive, ER positive, CEA only patchy positive and p16 only patchy, rather than strongly and diffusely, positive) indicates that this is a primary endometrial rather than endocervical carcinoma.  Endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the lower segment is associated with Lynch syndrome.  
Sections of the right ovary show a grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma with a very similar appearance to the endometrial tumour.  Given the depth of invasion of the endometrioidtumour, and the histologic similarity, this may well be a metastasis from the endometrium rather than a separate primary.  
Sections of the left ovary show a corpus luteum and a cystic follicle.  The left ovary is otherwise unremarkable.  Sections of the fallopian tubes are unremarkable.  
Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr L Josich.  

B.  Sections show one lymph node.  No tumour is seen.  
C.  Sections show four lymph nodes.  No tumour is seen.  
D.  Sections show mesothelium with underlying tissue.  There is some recent haemorrhage and focal chronic inflammation but no tumour is seen.  
E.  Sections show omentum.  There are patchy areas of organising haemorrhage and fibrin with associated fibrosis and haemosiderin laden macrophages but no tumour isseen.  

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes:  
-  Grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of lower segment endometrium with invasion to serosal surface and cervical involvement.  
-  Grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma of right ovary, ?metastatic.  
B.  Right iliac node:  No tumour (0/1).
C.  Left pelvic nodes:  No tumour (0/4).  
D.  Left pelvic peritoneum:  No tumour.  
E.  Omentum:  No tumour.  

