
Episode No:  01L3773899
0143773.XZY

LUCKADOO, GERARD 
Lab No:  01L37738
Millgrove
NORTH MACKAY  Western Australia  5049
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  1/5/1989
Sex:  M
Collected: 21/08/2013 at 14:42
Location:  PaLMS-GUYRA MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
DR NEIL Raleigh SUDOL
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Gastric tumour.  Emphysema.  Previous Bilroth 2 for gastric ulcer.  Now gastric tumour at gastroenterostomy site, with possible involvement of the afferent loop and transverse colon.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Gastric tumour" consists of a gastroenterectomy including distal stomach, gastroenterostomy site, loop of small bowel and a sleeve of transverse colon measuring 160mm in length.  A section of the stomach is 80mm in length with lesser curvature 60mm in length and greater curvature measuring 45mm in length and a resection margin measuring 80mm in length.  There is a section of small bowel measuring 150mm in length which is looped around the gastroenterostomy site.  Thereis a sleave of transverse colon mucosa measuring 30 x 20mm which is adherent over the gastroenterostomy site.  There is a section of unremarkable greater omentum measuring 210 x 110 x 15mm which is attached from the greater curvature and adherent over the tumour site. At the site of the gastroenterostomy there is a circumferential deeply invasive ulcerated tumour extending from the distal stomach around the gastroenterostomy site into efferent loop of small bowel and also extending into the afferent loop of small bowel where the loop of small bowel is adherent upon itself.  The tumour measures approximately 55 x 50 x 35mm.  The cut surface reveals the tumour extends into the stomach over a length of 22mm and involving 40mm of the efferent small bowel and 20mm of the afferent small bowel.  The tumour appears to invade through the muscularis propria and into the surrounding fatty tissue and focally abuts the serosal surface and appears to invade into the muscularis of the cancerous colon.  No definite lymph nodes are identified along the greater curvature orthe fat surrounding the adherent transverse colon.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - gastric resection margin; 3 - small bowel resection margin; 4 - gastroenterostomy site; 5 & 6 - full face of tumour; 7 & 8 - further full face of tumour; 9 -small bowel to stomach; 10 & 11 - transverse colon to tumour; 12 & 13 - tumour to afferent loop; 14 - further full face of tumour from stomach to small bowel; 15 to 17 - representative fat from greater curvature; 18 & 19 - representative fatfrom around transverse colon; 20 - uninvolved stomach; 21 - reserve block.   (RR/ta 24/10/63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr B Soito):
Sections show a moderately differentiated gastric adenocarcinoma involving the gastroenterostomy site.  The tumour invades the full thickness of both the gastric and small bowel wall and extends into the afferent and efferent loops of the small bowel. The tumour invades the serosal layer of the stomach and small intestine but the mesothelial layer has not been breached (no peritoneal involvement).  The adherent piece of transverse colon shows tumour infiltration approximately half way through the muscularis propria.  The surgical margins of the transverse colon appear clear of tumour.  There is no evidence of lymphovascular or perineural invasion and no lymph nodes are identified withinthe specimen.  Sections of the small bowel away from the tumour show no abnormality and the gastric mucosa shows a mild chronic gastritis with foci of intestinal metaplasia without dysplasia.  No Helicobacter seen. The Her-2 immunoperoxidase stain is negative. 
DIAGNOSIS:
Gastroenterectomy:
- Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, gastroenterostomy site, invasion of 
  Transverse colon (T4b), Her-2 negative. 
- No peritoneal involvement. 
- Surgical margins clear of tumour.
- No lymph nodes identified.  

