Episode No:  61H3848464
6123848.MRK

Laris, Brad CRISSY 
Lab No:  61H38484
Animbo
DERBY  Northern Territory  4158
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  24/4/1987
Sex:  F
Collected: 18/07/2012 at 10:29
Location:  IMVS - NARRANDERA HOSPITAL
DR Donn Turlku Cadlett
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

CLINICAL:
80 year old woman with pleural effusion - cytology serous carcinoma cells. Ovarian mass on imaging.  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy.  Now interval debulking. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen consists of a fallopian tube with a previously opened cyst attached. The fallopian tube measures 40 x 5 x 5mm. The fimbria is present. The serosal surface is unremarkable. The outer layer of the cyst is tan and fibrotic. The inner layer of the cyst is soft and shiny.  No solid areas are identified.  Block 1 - 2TS fimbria with cyst; 2-5 - 6 representative sections of the cyst.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Left ovary and tube", consists of an ovary. The fallopian tube is not identified macroscopically.  The ovary measures 60 x 40 x 30mm. The external surface is white and fleshy with areas of haemorrhage.  The cut surface is solid, white with areas of haemorrhage.  Blocks 1-6- 6 representative sections from the ovary; 7 - tissue for tissue banking. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Omental adhesions", consists of a piece of fibrotic omentum measuring 50 x 50 x 5mm.  A ? tumour deposit is identified measuring 7 x 5 x 5mm.  Blocks 1 & 2 - representative sections from the? deposit. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Right paracolic gutter node", consists of a piece of tissue 7 x 5 x 5mm.  AE 1 block. 
E.  Specimen labelled "Pouch of Douglas", consists of a piece of haemorrhagic tissue measuring 30 x 20 x 5mm. AE 1 block. 
F.  Specimen labelled "Sigmoid nodule", consists of two nodular pieces of tissue measuring 5 and 15mm. AE 1 block. 
G.Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of a piece of omentum 400 x 60 x 10mm. Multiple tumour deposits measuring up to 5mm in maximum diameter are identified and one serous cyst measuring 10mm.  Representative sections from the tumour deposit and the cyst in 3 blocks.  (SW/ec 21.9.62) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr Q Saltarelli) 
A.  Sections of the right ovary show a multiloculated simple serous cyst. Within the subserosal fibroadipose tissue surrounding the cyst, there are numerous foci of metastatic high grade serous adenocarcinoma. The sampled fallopian tube shows no significant histologic abnormality.
B.  Sections of the left ovarian tumour show a moderately differentiated serous adenocarcinoma. No definite lymphovascular space invasion is seen. The fallopian tube is not identified histologically.
C.  Sections of omentum show mature fibroadipose tissue containing extensive metastatic deposits of poorly differentiated serous adenocarcinoma. 
D.  Sections show fibroadipose tissue, partially covered bymesothelium, and which contains a benign peritoneal cyst. Within fibroadipose tissue adjacent to the cyst is a 0.56mm deposit of metastatic serous adenocarcinoma.
E.  Sections show mature fibroadipose tissue containing extensive deposits of metastatic poorly differentiated serous adenocarcinoma.
F.  Sections ofthe sigmoid nodule show a 4.0mm deposit of poorly differentiated serous adenocarcinoma within fibroadipose tissue.
G.  Sections of omentum show mature fibroadipose tissue containing extensive metastatic deposits of poorly differentiated serous adenocarcinoma. Six sampled lymph nodes show metastatic adenocarcinoma (6/6).
Representative slides shown to Dr Q Freudenberg.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right ovary and tube:
Metastatic poorly differentiated serous adenocarcinoma.
Multiloculated serous cyst.

B.  Left ovary and tube: Moderately differentiated serous adenocarcinoma.

C.  Omental adhesions: Extensive deposits of metastatic poorly differentiated serous adenocarcinoma.

D.  Right paracolic gutter nodule: 
Benign peritoneal cyst.
0.56mm deposit of metastatic serous adenocarcinoma. 

E.  Pouch of Douglas: Extensive deposits of metastatic poorly differentiated serous adenocarcinoma. 

F.  Sigmoid nodule: Metastatic serous adenocarcinoma. 

G.  Omentum: 
Extensive omental deposits of metastatic serous adenocarcinoma.
Sixsampled lymph nodes show metastatic adenocarcinoma (6/6).


