Episode No:  04O341539G
0453415.KZG

Cheek, Palmira 
Lab No:  04O34153
Hestercombe
BARGARA  WA  2652
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  10/3/2006
Sex:  F
Collected: 6/11/2063 at :
Location:  3HR STAY SURGICAL UNIT - GREENWICH HOSPITAL
DR Roscoe GRAHAM Habowski
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Primary ovarian Ca ?pelvic mass.  Ca125 300.  Right adnexal mass.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right adnexal mass" consists of two red/tan friable fragments of tissue 20 x 15 x 12mm and 30 x 10 x 10mm.  Two transverse sections taken for frozen section.  
Blocks:  1- frozen section one; 2- frozen section two; 3 to 6 - further representative sections.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Poorly differentiated large cell malignancy favourpoorly differentiated carcinoma.  
Phone result to Anaesthetist by Dr A Yampolsky/A Temblador/A Remey/A Shorts at 9.50 on 04.09.13.
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries" consists of a uterus withattached bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 244g in total.  The uterus measures 90 x 40 x 25mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface anteriorly and a roughened posterior surface.  The ectocervix measures 34 x 28mm and has anunremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 2mm in maximal thickness with a total wall thickness of 14mm.  The right fallopian tube measures 55mm in length with a maximum dimension of 10mm.  The right ovary consists of a solid and cystic mass which measures 60 x 70 x 60mm.  The mass is approximately 80% solid and 20% cystic.  The cystic component has a wall thickness of <1mm with no papillary excrescences seen.  The solid component has a smooth cream and haemorrhagic fleshy appearance.  The tumour is adherent to the posterior uterine wall.  The parametrial tissue between the uterus and the mass is involved by soft cream nodular tissue.  The left fallopian tube measures 55mm in length witha maximum diameter of 8mm.  The left ovary measures 24 x 14 x 10mm.  On sectioning the left ovary is unremarkable.  
Blocks:  1 to 4 - full longitudinal section through anterior uterine cervix and body; 5 to 8 - full longitudinal section through posterior uterine body and cervix; 9 & 10 - representative posterior uterine body with adherent tumour; 11 - ?right fallopian tube; 12 - 13 - right adnexal tumour with ?right fallopian tube; 14 to 18 - representative right adnexal tumour; 19 - representative parametrial tissue involved by tumour; 20 - LS of the left fimbrial end of left fallopian tube; 21 - representative TS left fallopian tube;  22 - representative left ovary (block 14 - reserved block).  
C.  Specimen labelled "Sigmoid fat" consists of multiple pieces of adipose tissue which measure 110 x 90 x 15mm.  The pieces have solid firm cream areas which constitute approximately 15% of the tissue.  Representative tissue in 3 blocks.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a piece of omentum which measures 210 x 200 x 70mm.  Multiple solid cream areas are present.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.  
E.  Specimen labelled "Peritoneal tumour" consists of firm cream and fatty tissue which measures 25 x 25 x 10mm.  Representative sections in 1 block.  
(TO: WF: XR/mm 7.11.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr A Vaughner): 
A,B.  Sections of the right ovarian tumour show a poorly differentiated carcinoma most consistent with a poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  Much of the tumour consists of sheets of cells but some of it forms slit-like glands, consistent with serous carcinoma.  The tumour cells have medium sized and large, pleomorphic nuclei and a variable amount of eosinophilic or amphophilic cytoplasm.  Scattered very large, highly atypical tumour cells are noted.  Some of the tumour has a moderate associated infiltrate of small lymphocytes.  There is some tumour necrosis but this is not prominent.  
Sections of the cervix show focal tumour adherent to the serosa of the upper posterior endocervix.  The cervix is otherwise unremarkable.  Sections of the endometrium show that this is thin and inactive.  There is tumour on the posterior uterine serosa and invading outer myometrium of the right posterior body and fundus of the uterus.  Sections of the right fallopian tube show tumour at the fimbrial end, on part of the serosal surface and also extending into the outer muscle layer of the tube.  The tubal epithelium itself is unremarkable.  Tumour also involves right adnexal soft tissue.  Sections of the left ovary and fallopian tube are unremarkable.  
C.  Sections show fat with multiple deposits of poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.
D.  Sections of omentum show prominent patchy involvement by poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  
E.  Sections show mesothelium with underlying fibrofat.  The tissue is involved by poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right adnexal mass:  Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  
B.  Uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes:  Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma involving right ovary, right tube, right adnexal soft tissue and right posterior uterine serosa and outer myometrium.   
C.  Sigmoid fat:  Serous carcinoma.  
D.  Omentum:  Serous carcinoma.  
E.  Peritoneal tumour:  Serous carcinoma.  

