
Episode No:  47F338862B
472338.WQG

Selvig, Antonette
Lab No:  47F33886
Rowhook
THIRLMERE    6229
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  3/8/2009
Sex:  F
Collected: 03/09/2012 at 09:21
Location:  Cure For Life Foundation Neuro-oncology Laboratory Adult Cancer-TRUNDLE MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
DR JOHNATHON VINCENZO BURGY
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Liver tumour ?fibrolamellar.  Seg IV, VI, V, I, gallbladder, hilar lymph nodes.
 
MACROSCOPIC:
Patient details checked by RH/mg
A.  Specimen labelled "Segment IV/V/VI liver resection" consists of a hemihepatectomy 175 x 120 x 85mm, weighing 534g.  A 75mm gallbladder (diameter 23mm) is attached to the posterior surface.  The anterior capsular surface is distorted by a nodular tumour, 120 x 85 x 60mm.  A 70mm strip of omentum is adherent to thisarea inferiorly.  On sectioning, the tumour appears well circumscribed and extends to within 17mm of the hepatic resection margin.  The tumour appears to abut the capsule adjacent to the gallbladder but does not involve gallbladder.  The uninvolved liver appears unremarkable.  The gallbladder mucosa is unremarkable and the lumen contains bile.
Blocks:  1 - tumour, cystic duct lymph node and hepatic resection margin; 2 - tumour and hepatic resection margin; 3 - tumour and capsule; 4 - further representative tumour; 5 - tumour reserve block; 6 - uninvolved liver; 7 - gallbladder body and fundus.
B.  Specimen labelled "Liver segment I" consists of a 55 x 27 x 23mm piece of liver, weighing 10.9g.  A 6mm subcapsular nodule is noted on sectioning.  The uninvolved liver is macroscopically unremarkable.
Blocks:  1 - nodule BAE; 2 - representative uninvolved liver.
C.  Specimen labelled "Lymph nodes" consistsof unorientated fibroadipose tissue 75 x 25 x 20mm.  
Blocks:  1 to 4 - lymph nodes; 5 - one lymph node bisected.   (UH/cc  5/11/62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof L Klingaman): 
Section of the liver show a moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. The tumour is 120 mm in maximum diameter (macroscopic measurement) and is composed of moderately atypical hepatocytes separated by fibrous stroma. The tumour cells are arranged in a trabecular and nested pattern, and show mild  variation in nuclear size and shape with conspicuous nucleoli. Numerous trabeculae are more than three cells thick and have irregular edges. Large cytoplasmic eosinophilic globules, nuclear inclusions and bile pigment are present inmany tumour cells. Focal clear cell change is also present. 
Frequent mitotic figures are seen.
The tumour lacks the typical morphology of fibrolamellar carcinoma (as suggested in the clinical history).
A focus suspicious for lymphovascular invasion is present.
The surgical margins area well clear of tumor. The tumour abuts the capsular surface of the liver.

Immunohistochemical stains:
HEPAR-1: Patchy positive in tumour cells (repeatedon separate blocks)
CAM5.2: Strongly positive in tumour cells.
AFP: mildly positive with focal strong positivity in tumour cells at periphery (?fixation artifact).
CD34: Positive in endothelial cells lining sinusoids within the tumour. (repeated)
Polyclonal CEA: Patchy, weakly positive.
AFP: Patchy strong positivity in tumour cells.
CD56: Negative (repeated)
Keratin 7: Focally positive
The Ki67 proliferation index is less than10%.
Estrogen receptor: Negative (focal staining in adjacent normal liver)
Progesterone receptor: Negative
TTF-1: Negative
MelanA, HMB 45 and S100: Negative
The non tumour liver shows no significant abnormality. Rare PAS positive, Diastase resistant globules are identified, of uncertain significance. An alpha-1 antitrypsin stain is in progress.
The sections of the gallbladder show mild, focal cholesterolosis, but no other significant abnormality.
B. The sections of the liver show focal nodular hyperplasia measuring approximately 7mm in maximum diameter. There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  The sections show thirteen lymph nodes with no evidence of metastasis (0/13). Three fragments of pancreas with no significant abnormality are also noted. 
DIAGNOSIS:

A. SEGMENT IV/V/VI LIVER RESECTION. MODERATELLY DIFFERENTIATED HEPATOCELLULAR CARCINOMA. 
 
B. LIVER SEGMENT I.  FOCAL NODULAR HYPERPLASIA
C. LYMPH NODES: THIRTEENLYMPH NODES NEGATIVE FOR METASTASIS (0/13)
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: 
The alpha 1 antitrypsin stain shows non-specific, diffuse cytoplasmic staining only.

