Episode No:  44S698975F
4476989.UOF

SNETSINGER, KRISTI 
Lab No:  44S69897,44S69897
S Joliet
TUMUT  VIC  3841
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  25/11/2000
Sex:  F
Collected: 12/12/2012 at 10:29
Location:  CPC Pathology - COOTAMUNDRA DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR JODY JIMMIE Pignatelli
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (28.8.63):


CLINICAL:
Serous adenocarcinoma on previous cone biopsy.  Definitive surgery today. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Cervix, uterus, tubes and ovaries", consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 163g in total.  The uterus measures 70 x 50 x 35mm and has a dull, congested serosal surface.  There is minimal ectocervix present and the remnant tissue measures 20 x 20mm and appears haemorrhagic.  
On opening, the endometrium measures less than 1mm in thickness and the myometrium up to 20mm. A 9mm endometrial polyp is present within the posterior fundus.  The myometrium contains fibroids up to 20mm.  
The rightfallopian tube measures 50mm in length and up to 5mm in diameter. Multiple parafimbrial cysts up to 3mm are present.  The right ovary measures 28 x 21 x 15mm and has a granular, haemorrhagic serosal surface.On sectioning, the ovary has a nodular cut surface with multiple cysts up to 8mm containing straw-coloured fluid.  
The left fallopian tube measures50mm in length and up to 6mm in diameter.  Paratubal cysts up to 4mm are present.  The left ovary is partly solid and partly cystic, measuring 75 x 55 x 40mm.  The outer surface appears predominantly smooth with some adherent omentum and patchy granularity.  Sectioning reveals firm white tumour within the solid areas.  The cystic areas contain yellow gelatinous material. 
Blocks 1-4 - full LS anterior body and cervix; 5-6 - further representative anterior endometrium; 7-11 - full LS posterior body and cervix (9/10 paired); 12 & 13 - further representative posterior endometrium; 14 & 15 - representative right ovary; 16 - representative right tube; 17-22 - representative left ovary; 23 - representative left tube; 24 - representative right parametrium; 25 - representative left parametrium; 26 - tumour reserve block; 26 to 31 - Re-select, remainder of ovaries and tubes.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Right common iliac lymph node", consists of fibroadipose tissue 22 x 12 x 7mm.  
Block 1- lymph nodes. 
C. Specimen labelled "Right external lymph node", consists of fibroadipose tissue 20 x 15 x 7mm. 
Block 1 - one lymph node TS, AE.
D. Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of firm nodular omental tissue 320 x 80 x 30mm.  Sectioning reveals ? tumour deposits and foci of fat necrosis.  Representative 3 blocks; 4 - tumour reserve block.  (TO: XL;YX/ec 15.2.62) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr L Hirota)
A.  A section of the posterior cervix shows a focus of ulceration and reactive change in the squamous and columnar epithelium.  Focally just beneath the serosal surface of the posterior cervix there is a deposit of serous carcinoma.  The cervix is otherwise unremarkable.  
Sections of the endometrium show that this is mainly inactive and there is a benign endometrial polyp.  However there are foci of serous carcinoma in situ in the endometrium.  No myometrial invasion is seen.  No lymphovascularinvasion is seen. There are leiomyomas and there is adenomyosis in the myometrium.  On the serosal surface of the uterus there are scattered foci of high grade serous carcinoma bothanteriorly and posteriorly.  
Sections of the left fallopian tube show invasive serous carcinoma at the fimbrial end.  The invasive tumour measures around 6mm in main diameter.There is also carcinoma in situ at the fimbrial ends of both fallopian tubes.
Sections of both ovaries show quite extensive moderately differentiated serous carcinoma on the serosal surfaces but only focally more deeply within the ovaries.  The main described cyst in the left ovary is benign.  
A section of the right parametrium shows focal serous carcinoma on the serosal surface. The left parametrium is unremarkable.  
B.  Sections show two lymph nodes.  No tumour is seen. 
C.  Section shows one lymph node.  No tumour is seen.
D.  Sections of omentum show extensive involvement by moderately differentiated serous carcinoma, mainly in fibrous septae between the fat lobules.   One uninvolved small lymph node is also identified in the omentum.   
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.   Serous carcinoma at fimbrial end of left fallopian tube and involving serosa of both ovaries, uterus, posterior cervix and right parametrium.  Serous carcinoma in situ atfimbrial end of right tube.  Serous carcinoma in situ of endometrium.  Uterine leiomyomas and adenomyosis.
B.   Right common iliac lymph nodes:  No tumour (0/2).
C.   Right external iliac lymph node:  No tumour (0/1).
D.   Omentum:  Serous carcinoma. 
COMMENT:
The features are most consistent with a primary moderately differentiated serous carcinomaof the fimbrial end of the left tube, with metastases in the omentum, on the serosa of both ovaries and on the uterine serosa.  There is also serous carcinoma in situ in the endometrium but it is noted thatthe previous uterine curettings and cervical cone biopsy (44S69897) showed extensive serous carcinoma in the endometrium and serous carcinoma involving cervical glands and stroma.  The endometrial and cervical tumour also seem likely to be metastatic from the left tube.  There is also serous carcinoma in-situ at the fimbrial end of the right tube. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (28.8.63):
Stains for hormone receptors were requested on this specimen but were instead done on the previous uterine currettings specimen (44S69897O); please see that specimen for result.
 
 

 

