
 7696059.IDD
SPEGAL, Clarita
76Z60593

Last edited : 23/2/2062		Page: 2
***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT #1 (23.2.2062): MSI MARKER RESULTS
Dr U Burstein

CLINICAL:
Sigmoid colon tumour.  No liver or lung mets on CT scan.  IHD, CABG, IDDM.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Sigmoid colon"consists of a section of colon, 130mm in length with attached mesentery 150 x 80 x 40mm.  32mm from one resection margin is a polypoid lesion, 40 x 25mm which appears to take up approximately 90% of the circumference of the colon.  The tumour appears to invade to a maximum depth of 5mm and invades into the muscularis propria but not through it.  The remainder of the mucosa appears unremarkable.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified in the mesentery from2 to 7mm.  
Blocks:  1 - resection margin; 2 to 4 - representative tumour; 5 - tumour and adjacent normal mucosa; 6 - uninvolved colonic mucosa; 7 - apical lymph node; 8 to11 - nodes; 12 - reserved block.
B.  Specimen labelled "Distal donut" consists of two donuts of mucosa whichwere attached measuring 20mm in maximum dimension.  AE 2 blocks.  
(RR/mm 21.2.62) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr U Behrends)
A.  The sigmoid colon tumour is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. A synoptic report for colorectal carcinoma follows:
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR COLORECTAL CARCINOMA
Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour: Sigmoid colon. 	
Maximum tumour diameter: 40mm.
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 32mm.
Tumour perforation: No.
Microscopic Description
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT2	Invasion into muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Twenty-seven (27).	
Number of lymph nodes involved: None (0/27). 
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Not identified.
Perineural invasion
Not identified. 
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
The non-neoplastic colonic mucosa shows changes consistent with microscopic colitis (mixed lymphocytic and collagenous pattern). 
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Not applicable.
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
Pending.
Stage pTNMAJCC (2010): STAGE I   (pT2N0Mx)   	

B.  The sections of distal sigmoid colon donut shows changes consistent with microscopic colitis (mixed lymphocytic and collagenous pattern). There is no evidence of malignancy. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Sigmoid colon:40mm, pTNM Stage I, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, clear of margins. No evidence of malignancy in twenty seven lymph nodes (0/27). 
.  Distal donut: Changes consistent with microscopic colitis. No evidence of malignancy.

Markers of microsatellite instability are being performed and a supplementary report will be issued.

***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT #1 (23.2.2062): MSI MARKER RESULTS
Dr U Oyen
Immunoperoxidase stains for MSI proteins 
MLH1	Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2  Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2	Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6	Preserved nuclear staining
COMMENT:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

