SPR no: 42N853504G
MRN no: 42585350
Site_name: THE MORNINGTON CENTRE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Known pancreatic cancer with strong family history.  Tumour around gastroduodenal artery and portal vein.  Poor response to chemotherapy Whipple&amp;apos;s procedures performed.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Pancreatodenectomy plus omentum&amp;quot;, consists of a pancreatoduodenectomy, with a separate piece of fatty tissue.  The pancreas measures 66 x 39 x 51mm, and the stomach measures 77mm along the stapled margin x 32 x 35mm.  The duodenum measures 218mm in length x 69mm in circumference.  There is peripancreatic fatty tissue attached to the pancreas measuring 110 x 40 x 20mm.  The separate fatty piece of tissue (omentum) measures 175 x 135 x approximately 30mm.  A wire mesh stent is located in the duodenum but not attached to any structures which measured 62mm in length by a diameter of 12mm.  There are orientating sutures on the pancreas (three denoting uncinate process, two denoting SMA margin, and one denoting the portal vein margin).  The common bile duct margin is not macroscopically discernible, and the fellow for Dr Bursi also could not identify the common bile duct margin.  The stapled stomach margin is inked blue and the distal duodenal margin is inked black.  The gastric and duodenal mucosa appear macroscopically unremarkable.  The pancreatic neck margin measures 22 x 15mm.  The portal vein margin is inked blue, the SMA margin inked red, and the uncinate process inked green, and the anterior and posterior surface of pancreas inked black.  The pancreas is sectioned into 13 horizontal slices from superior (closest to pancreatic neck margin) to inferior.  An ill defined tumour mass is seen within the head of the pancreas measuring approximately 30mm across.  A nick is made to represent the anterior aspect.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - RS omentum; 4 - stomach margin; 5 - duodenal margin; 6 - shave pancreatic neck margin; 7 - TS common bile duct margin; 8 - next sequential TS common bile duct close to margin; 9 - slice one (next to pancreatic neck margin); 10 - slice two; 11 - slice three; 12 - slice four; 13 - slice five; 14 - slice six; 15 - slice seven; 16 - slice eight; 17 - slice nine; 18 - slice ten; 19 - slice eleven; 20 - slice twelve; 21 - slice thirteen (inferior); 22 to 26 - peripancreatic fat - lymph nodes as seen (except block 22 - one lymph node in two pieces).

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Common hepatic lymph node&amp;quot;, consists of a tan brown piece of tissue measuring 22 x 16 x 11mm.  Specimen inked blue.  Specimen transversely sectioned into 5 pieces, and serially embedded across blocks 1 &amp;amp; 2.  AE 2 blocks.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Distal bile duct&amp;quot;, consists of a grey unorientated piece of tissue measuring 30 x up to 9 x 6mm.
Blocks: 1 - one TS, of one end; 2 &amp;amp; 3 - mid TS; 4 - TS of opposite end.  AE 4 blocks.
(TO:NM/eh 19/9/68)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Kiehm):
A.  Sections of the pancreas show moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with cystic and myxoid change and surrounding fibrosis consistent with treatment effect.  The tumour measures 32mm across and extends into peripancreatic soft tissue and duodenal submucosa.  Tumour surrounds, but does not invade, the wall of a large artery in the vicinity of the duodenum.  As noted in the macroscopic description, the common bile duct margin is not identified however, tumour is present within surrounding soft tissue.  Two (2) lymph nodes show deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma.  Low grade PANIN is present at the pancreatic neck resection margin.

B.  The single (1) lymph node identified shows no significant abnormality. There is no evidence of malignancy.

C.  Sections of the bile duct show reactive changes only. There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.

The overall features are as follows:

Histological tumour type
Ductal adenocarcinoma

Histological grade
Grade 2:  Moderately differentiated (50% to 95% of tumour composed of glands)

Microscopic tumour sites
Head of pancreas

Extent of tumour invasion
Pancreas
Duodenal wall
Peripancreatic soft tissues

Maximum tumour diameter
32mm.

Lymphovascular invasion
Not identified

Perineural invasion
Present

Perineural invasion of the superior mesenteric artery (uncinate) margin neural plexus
Not identified

Pre-invasive lesion
Present

Margins:
Pancreatic neck:  8mm (low grade PANIN present)
Common bile duct:  The common bile duct margin in the main specimen (specimen A) unable to be identified however, small deposits of adenocarcinoma are seen within surrounding soft tissue. The additional distal bile duct (specimen C) shows no evidence of malignancy.
Portal vein (superior mesenteric vein):  1mm.
Superior mesenteric artery:  8mm.
Periuncinate soft tissue:  4mm.

Surfaces:
Anterior:  Well clear.
Posterior:  2mm.

Lymph nodes:
Number found: 28 (specimen A), 1 (specimen B).
Number involved:  2 (specimen A).

Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Grade 2 (partial response) - Residual cancer with evident regression, but more than single cells or rare small groups of cancer cells

Other pathologies:
Mild chronic gastritis with acute serosal inflammation, no Helicobacter.
Fat necrosis within the omentum.

PATHOLOGICAL STAGING (AJCC 7th Ed.)

PANCREAS
Primary tumour category (pT)
T3 Tumour extends beyond the pancreas but without involvement of the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery

Regional lymph node category (pN)
N1 Regional lymph node metastasis

Distant metastasis category (pM)
MX Not assessable by histology


ADDENDUM (29/9/68):

Immunoperoxidase stains for MSI proteins (Block A12)

MLH1          Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2          Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2          Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6          Preserved nuclear staining

Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
