
Episode No:  77G028680F
772028.QWA

PAKE, Britta 
Lab No:  77G02868
Fort Foote
GOOLWA  WA  1138
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  /426/1984
Sex:  M
Collected: 25/06/2012 at 09:48
Location:  SEALS Central-ST HELENS DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR Geoffrey Charley AUCHMOODY
Distribution:  Dr. UNKNOWN,  FILE-COPY, DR GARY, DR Tauer
CLINICAL:
Rectosigmoid colon cancer.  
Low high anterior resection  + donut. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Sigmoid colon", consists of an intact segment of lower sigmoid colon/upper rectum, 240mm in length and 30mm in diameter, with attached mesosigmoid up to 95mm in width, as well as, perirectal fat up to 45mm.  The entire anterior surface is covered by serosa and the anterior peritoneal reflection is not seen.  The pericolic fat appears complete.  A circumferential poorly circumscribed tumour is identified 45mm from the distal resection margin.  The tumour is 33mm in length, 37mm in width and appears to infiltrate the full thickness of bowel and probably invading the pericolonic fat. The tumour is up to 14mm in thickness.  The pericolic fat is at least 16mm inthickness around the tumour and the tumour appears 15mm from radial resection margin. Several uncomplicated diverticula are identified in the adjacent bowel wall.  No polyps or additional lesions are seen.  
Block 1 - proximal margin; 2 - distal margin; 3-6 - full face of tumour; 7 - tumour deepest invasion; 8 & 9 - tumour and adjacent colon; 10 - diverticulae; 11 - four nodes; 12 - one node bisected; 13 - three nodes; 14- five nodes; 15 - one node bisected; 16 - one node bisected; 17 - three nodes; 18-20 - high point of resection with possible nodes; 21 - reserved block for tissue banking. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Distal donut", consists of a donut 17mm in diameter and up to 7mm in length.  Macroscopically no distinct lesions are identified. AE 1 block. 
(VU/ec  27.8.62) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr T Knipe) 
A.  The lower sigmoid colon tumour is a moderately to poorly differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma. A synoptic report for colonic carcinoma follows:

SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR COLONIC CARCINOMA
Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour: Distal sigmoid colon. 	
Maximum tumour diameter: 37mm.
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 45mm(distal margin). 
Tumour perforation:  No.
Relation of tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection:	 Above.
Microscopic Description
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderately to poorly differentiated.
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Carcinoma extends through the muscularis propria and into the subserosal fibroadipose tissue. Although tumour comes close to the free serosal surface, including a focal reactive mesothelial cell hyperplasia and granulation type tissue, no convincing direct tumour involvement is seen on multiple levels examined. 
Tumour involvement of margins
Cutends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not involved
Macroscopic measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin: 15mm.
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Twenty-one.	
Number of lymph nodes involved: Three (3/21).
pN1b	Metastases in 2-3 regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Present 
Perineural invasion
Present - focal.
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
A tumour associated peri-colic abscess is present.
The presence of an uncomplicateddiverticulum is confirmed histologically.
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Not applicable.
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
pTNM Stage 7th Edition: IIIB
	

B.  Sections of bowel wall donuts show changes suggestive of a focal hyperplastic type polyp. Thereis no convincing dysplasia or evidence of malignancy.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Sigmoid colon:
37mm, pTNM Stage IIIB, moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the sigmoid colon, clear of margins. 
There is focal lymphvascular space andperineural invasion and a localized pericolic tumour associated abscess is present. 
Three of twenty-one lymph nodes show metastatic adenocarcinoma (3/21).
Lowlikelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype. 

B.  Bowel wall donuts: Changes suggestive of a hyperplastic polyp. No evidence of dysplasia or malignancy. 



