Episode No:  17C645887X
1706458.VTX

Ruman, Rodolfo 
Lab No:  17C64588
Hewins
MOUNT ELIZA  South Australia  4213
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  30/11/1992
Sex:  M
Collected: 11/10/2062 at :
Location:  MACQUARIEWARD-COBAR DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR Myron Theo Lozey
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (6.11.62):


CLINICAL:
Hx of large R retroperitoneal tumour wrapped around IVC andextending into lesser sacs and down to pelvis for resection.  Histopath + cytogenetics please.  
Small piece was divided from the larger specimen and sent for Cytogenetics. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.   Specimen labelled "Left perigastric tumour", consists of three pieces of unorientated fatty tissue 60, 70 and 95mm in maximum dimension. The largest piece is smooth over approximately 50% of its surface. The cut surfaces of the largest piece have a few small darker cream areas. The remainder of the cut surfaces reveal unremarkable fatty tissue.  Blocks 1-6 - representative larger fragment; 7-9 - representative middle sized fragment; 10-12 - representative smallest fragment. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Lesser sac tumour", consists of a piece of unoriented fatty tissue 140 x 105 x 45mm.  75% of the tissue has a smooth surface.  The cut surface reveals a few small focal areas of cream yellow.  The remainder of the tissue is unremarkable fatty tissue.  Representative sections in 8 blocks.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Retroperitonealtumour", consists of an unoriented piece of predominantly fatty tissue measuring 390 x 245 x 180mm and weighing 7.93kg.  The majority of the specimen has a relatively well circumscribed smooth surface. There is also an attached small piece which has a more roughened surface; this is attached to the main part of the specimen by a strand of connective tissue.  The cut surface of the larger more circumscribed part of the specimen is yellow/cream and has focal tan firmer areas.  There are also focal cream areas which appear to come close to some margins.  The attached, smaller more fragmented piece has a more fatty yellow appearance and appears fairly homogeneous throughout.  Blocks 1-13 - representative larger piece; 14-18 - representativesmaller more fragmented piece; 19 - tumour for tumour banking.  (MY/ec  12.10.62) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr E Vanelderen) 
 A to C. The three specimens are similar.  Sections show a lipomatous tumour composed of variably sized adipocytes with scatteredhyperchromatic and vacuolated cells with features of atypical lipoblasts.  The appearances are most consistent with an atypical lipomatous tumour/well-differentiated liposarcoma,lipoma-like.  The majority of the tumour has a lipoma-like appearance. Patchy small areas of infiltration by foamy macrophages are noted.  Much of the tumour in specimen C shows apparent recent, and organising, infarct-like necrosis.  The described, attached smaller piece of fatty tissue attached by connective tissue to the main tumour in specimen C also shows features of well differentiated liposarcoma.  
Sections including the described smooth surfaces on each specimen show tumour with an overlying thin rim of fibrous tissue.  Tumour extends to other excision margins of each specimen and adequacy of excision cannot be assessed because of the fragmented nature of the specimens.
Multiple sections have been examined and there is no evidence of tumour dedifferentiation.

DIAGNOSIS:
A to C.  Left perigastric tumour, lesser sac tumour and retroperitoneal tumour:  Atypical lipomatous tumour/well-differentiated liposarcoma, lipoma-like.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (6.11.62):
Cytogenetics was performed at MAROONDAH HOSPITAL's Pathology.
They report as follows:
"Although only 6 metaphases were obtained for analysis an abnormal clone was detected with lossof the Y chromosome and presence of a ring chromosome.  Interphase FISH showed amplification of MDM2 probe and of the 5' portion of the DDIT3 probe, consistent with an amplicon including loci from 12q13 and 12q15.  MDM2 amplification is associated with well differentiated liposarcoma/de-differentiatedliposarcoma."
Reported by E Pensis.
   

