
 4471270.ZBG
Baldacchino, VIVIANE DONETTE
44U12709,44U12709

Last edited : 13/1/2063		Page: 2
***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: MSI IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY (13.1.2063)
Dr L Kottwitz

CLINICAL:
Ovarian cancer. NSTEMI.  AVR.  HTN.  DVT.  Hyponatraemia.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.   Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary", consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube. The ovary measures 170 x 140 x 100mm. The outer surface of the ovary is smooth and shiny.  The fallopian tube measures 120mm in length and 10mm in diameter.The cut surface of the ovary shows a variegated appearance with a mixture of solid, cystic, necrotic and haemorrhagic areas. Block 1 - FS; 2-11 - representative sections of the tumour; 12- ? fimbria; 11 - proximal margin fallopian tube. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, right tube and ovary", consists of a uterus with attached cervix weighing in total 110g. The uterus measures 80 x 60 x 45mm and has a smooth and shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 40 x 25mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 1mm in maximumthickness. The myometrium is 17mm in maximum thickness. The myometrium is unremarkable. The right tube and ovary are identified. The left tube measures 65mm in length and 5mm in diameter. The fimbria is present and unremarkable.  The ovary measures 30 x 20 x 15mm and appears unremarkable.  The myometrium contains several fibroids ranging from 2-5mm.  Blocks 1-4 - one full LS of anterior body and cervix; 5-8 - one full LS of posterior body and cervix; 9 - right cornu; 10 - left cornu; 11 - right parametrial tissue; 12 - left parametrial tissue; 13 - right fimbria; 14 - representative section of right tube and ovary.
C.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of a piece of omentum 300 x 90 x 10mm.  The specimen is serially sectioned.  A small white solid nodule 2mm in diameter is present.  The rest of the omentum is unremarkable.  Block 1 - tissue with nodule; 2 & 3- representative sections of omentum.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Pouch of Douglass", consists of three membranous pieces of tissue measuring 40, 40 and 30mm in maximum diameter.  AE 3 blocks.
E.  Specimen labelled "Bladder peritoneum", consists of an irregular piece of membranous tissue 15 x 10 x 1mm.  AE 1 block. 
F.   Specimen labelled "Small bowel implant", consists of two pieces of tissue with a friable consistency measuring in aggregate 20 x 20 x 5mm.  AE 2 blocks.
G.   Specimen labelled "Left external iliac nodes", consists of an irregular piece of fatty tissue containing two lymph nodes 15 and 10mm in maximum diameter.  
Block 1 - one bisected lymph node; 2 - one bisected lymph node; 3 & 4- rest of tissue. 
H.Specimen labelled "Left obturator lymph nodes", consists of two large lymph nodes are identified measuring 25 and 20mm in maximum diameter.  Block 1- one lymph node;  2- one lymph node; 3 - rest of tissue.  
I.    Specimen labelled "Left common iliac lymph node", consists of a piece of fatty tissue containing three lymph nodes 5, 10, 10mm.  Block 1- two lymph nodes; 2 - one bisected lymph node; 3 - rest of tissue. 
J.   Specimen labelled "Left pelvic side wall peritoneum", consists of an irregular piece of fibrofatty tissue 25 x 20 x 5mm.  AE 2 blocks. 
K.   Specimen labelled "Right pelvic side wall peritoneum", consists of an irregular piece of fibrous tissue. AE 1 block. 
L.    Specimen labelled "Right paracolic gutter", consists of an irregular piece of fibrous tissue 15 x 10 x 5mm.  AE 1 block. 
M.   Specimen labelled "Left paracolic gutter", consists of an irregular piece of membranous tissue 15 x 10 x 2mm. AE 1 block.   (TO: QF: EK/ec   18.12.63) 
FROZEN SECTION:  
A.  Adenocarcinoma with possible endometrioid features.  
Reported by Dr L Perretti surgeon at 9:29am 15.10.13. 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr L Buffy)
A.  The left ovarian tumour is a well differentiated endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the ovary.The carcinoma consists of malignant glands of varying size, arranged back to back, with some showing focal squamous metaplasia and cystic change. Broad areas of necrosis are present. No definite lymphovascularspace invasion is seen. The carcinoma extends very close to the serosal surface (less than 0.1mm), but no definite perforation of the serosa is identified in the sections examined. The serosa shows scattered haemorrhagic adhesions containing mesothelial hyperplasia.
B.  The ectocervix and endocervix show no significant abnormality.  The endometrium appears inactive with cystic atrophy. The myometrium shows occasional hyalinised leiomyomas and focal adenomyosis. Scattered foci of granulation tissue are noted on the serosa, but no entrapped carcinoma cells are identified. The right parametrial tissue shows a benign serous (paratubal-type) cyst. Sections of the right ovary and fallopian tube show no significant abnormality. There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Sections of omentum show scattered foci of inflamed granulation type tissue. No evidence of malignancy is seen. 
D.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue showing mesothelial cell hyperplasia, inflamed granulation tissue, scattered foreign body type giant cells and granulomas. There is focal endosalpingiosis and scattered peritoneal keratin granulomas, but no viable tumour cells are seen. There is no evidence of malignancy.
E.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue showing mesothelial cell hyperplasia and inflamed granulation tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy.
F.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue showing prominent mesothelial cell hyperplasia, foci of acutely inflamed granulation tissue and fibrin exudation. There is no evidence of malignancy.  
G.  Sections of the three left external iliac lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/3). 
H.  Sections of the seven left obturator lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/7).
I.  Sections of the seven left common iliac lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/7).
J.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue showing prominent mesothelial cell hyperplasia, fociof acutely inflamed granulation tissue and fibrin exudation. There is no evidence of malignancy.  
K.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue containing acutely inflamed granulation tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy.  
L.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue and smooth muscle showing patchy acutely inflamed granulation tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy.  
M.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue showing extensive acutely inflamed granulation tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy.  
Representative slides seen with Dr L Apgar.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Left tube and ovary: Well differentiated ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma. 

B.  Uterus, cervix, right tube and ovary:
Inactive endometrium with cystic atrophy.
Hyalinised leiomyomas and focal adenomyosis.
Right ovary and fallopian tube show no significant abnormality.
Focal serosal haemorrhagic adhesions.
No evidence of malignancy. 

C.  Omentum: No evidence of malignancy. 

D.  Pouch of Douglas: Focal endosalpingiosis and scattered peritoneal keratin granulomas. No viable tumour cells seen. No evidence of malignancy. 

E.  Bladder peritoneum: No evidence of malignancy. 

F.  Small bowel implant: No evidence of malignancy.

G.  Left external iliac lymph nodes: No evidence of malignancy in three lymph nodes (0/3). 

H.  Left obturator lymph nodes:No evidence of malignancy in seven lymph nodes (0/7). 

I.  Left common iliac lymph nodes: No evidence of malignancy in seven lymph nodes (0/7). 

J.  Left pelvic side wall peritoneum: No evidence of malignancy.

K.  Right pelvic side wall peritoneum: No evidence of malignancy.

L.  Right paracolic gutter: No evidence of malignancy.

M.  Left paracolic gutter: No evidence of malignancy.


***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: MSI IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY (13.1.2063)
Dr L Kuchan
Microsatellite instability markers were performed as requested and the results are as follows:

