Episode No:  65K532197T
6535321.ZUT

SHEELY, Jerald Oriana 
Lab No:  65K53219
Wilpshire
ANNA BAY  Tasmania  4158
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  12/5/1993
Sex:  F
Collected: 11/12/2063 at :
Location:  Southern IML-NORTH WEST REGIONAL HOSPITAL
DR Dorathy MICHEAL STROH
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

CLINICAL:
Bilateral ovarian masses.  Nil neuro history, Ca bowel.  Hypertension, GORD.  Metastatic bowel cancer.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen is unlabelled as to site or nature and consists of consists of a uterus with attached cervix, right fallopian tube and ovary weighing 167g in total.  The uterus measures 80 x 60 x 35mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 30 x 22mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is less than 1mm in maximum thicknessand the myometrium is 28mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium contains four fibroids ranging from 5 to 20mm in maximum dimension.  The right fallopian tube is 55mm in length andup to 7mm in diameter.  The right ovary is cystic and measures 75 x 60 x 30mm and has been incised through prior to reception.  The serosal surface appears smooth.  The ovarian cyst is multiloculated.  There are multiple solid nodules within the cyst occupying approximately half of the cyst volume.  
Blocks: 1 to 4 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 5 to 7 - full LS of posterior body and cervix (age representative the largest fibroid); 9 - ?adenomyosis; 10 - right fallopian tube; 11 to 17 - representative sections of the ovary (block 12 - reserve block).
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary" consists of a disrupted and morselated cyst with multiple solid fragments 80 x 70 x 40mm in aggregate.  The largest piece of tissue is multiloculated cyst.  There are multiple solid nodules within the cyst occupying 60% of the volume of the cyst.  Some of these nodules are friable.  
Blocks: 1 - ?fimbrial end of fallopian tube; 2 to 8 - representative sections.
C.  Specimen labelled "Umbilical nodule" consists of two unorientated and irregularly shaped pieces of solid tissue 55 x 25 x 15mm and 40 x 15 x 10mm.  Slicing reveals a predominately pale solid cut surface with patchy fatty tissue at the periphery.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - representative sections.
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Caecal lesion" consists of three ragged pieces of tan solid tissue ranging from 12 to 15mm in maximum dimension and measuring 25 x 20 x 5mm in aggregate.  AE 1 block.(ZN/ta 11/12/63) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr Q Berretti)
A.  The ectocervix and endocervixshow no significant abnormality. The endometrium is weakly proliferative with cystic atrophy. The myometrium shows adenomyosis and leiomyomas. There is metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma involving the uterine serosa, themyometrium and showing extensive involvement of the right ovary. The carcinoma is CK20 positive and CK7 negative. The fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality. 
B.  Sections of the left fallopian tube and ovary show extensive metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. 
C.  Sections are of fibrocollagenous and adipose tissue showing metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Carcinoma extends to the biopsy edge. 
 
D.  Sections are of fibrocollagenous and adipose tissue showing metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Carcinoma extends to the biopsy edge.
COMMENT:
The uterine serosa and myometrium, right ovary/fallopian tube, left ovary/fallopian tube, umbilical nodule and caecal nodule show multiple foci of metastatic adenocarcinoma. The overall morphology and pattern of immunohistochemical staining is consistent with primary colorectal origin. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus and right ovary/fallopian tube: 
Metastatic adenocarcinoma involving the uterine serosa, myometrium and right ovary. 
Weakly proliferative endometrium with cystic atrophy.
Adenomyosis and leiomyoma(s). 

B.  Left tube and ovary: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 

C.  Umbilical nodule: Metastatic adenocarcinoma.

D.  Caecal lesion: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 
(Please see comment).

 





