
Episode No:  88U576067Z
887576.CQU

POMAR, Antonia 
Lab No:  88U57606
Esty
CAMDEN HAVEN  ACT  5127
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  24/2/2024
Sex:  F
Collected: 21/03/2013 at 09:45
Location:  RHW-GLENSIDE CAMPUS
DR WARRIGAL Jon OVERFELT
Distribution:  DR PORTER,  FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
		SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (Dr W Bverger 6/4/63)
 			(Correction of typographic error)

The following reportreplaces the originally issued report and corrects a typographic error regarding the sides of the thyroid lobes in the diagnostic summary.  The diagnosis remains unchanged. 


CLINICAL:
Papillary thyroid Ca right lobe.  Multiple enlarge central (?reactive) nodes.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right hemithyroid" consists of a hemithyroid measuring 45mm (superior to inferior) x 25mm (medial to lateral) x 20 (anterior to posterior).  There is attached skeletal muscle anterolaterally measuring 20 x 15 x 15mm.  Sectioning reveal a pale grey tumour approximately 30mm in dimension with an ill-defined border.  The residual parenchyma has a lobular appearance. The tracheal margin inked blue, anterior margin black.  Seriallysectioned AE 13 blocks from inferior to superior. (Blocks 5 & 6  and 7 & 8 composite blocks).
B.  Specimen labelled "Left hemithyroid" consists of a hemithyroid measuring20mm (medial to lateral) x 45 (superior to inferior) x 25mm (anterior to posterior).  The tracheal margin inked black, anterior margin blue.  The cut surface reveals multiple pale areas ranging from 5 to 10mm.Serially section AE 8 blocks from inferior to superior.
  
C.  Specimen labelled "Precricoid tissue" consists of two pieces of fibroadipose tissue 15 and 10mm.  External surface inked black.  AE 1 block.
  
D.  Specimen labelled "Central neck" consists of fibroadipose tissue measuring 75 x 15 x 10mm.  Multiple lymph nodes identified.  AE 4 blocks.  (WS/ta 23/5/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr W Cacace): 
A.  The right lobe of thyroid has been completely embedded and shows a non-encapsulated 32mmpapillary carcinoma (8 consecutive slices). The carcinoma displays a mixed papillary and follicular architecture within a hyalinised, sclerosed stroma.  In areas the tumour shows Hurthle cell features. There are scattered foci of associated psammomatous calcification. No solid/insular or trabecular architecture is seen and there is no necrosis.  Mitoses are inconspicuous.  
There are several foci of extrathyroidal extension into perithyroid adipose tissue andstriated muscle, approximately 0.9mm beyond the thyroid; in areas the boundaries of the thyroid are difficult to define because of replacement by sclerotic tumour stroma.  No definite vascular or perineural invasion is seen.   The tumouris less than 0.1mm from the posterior/tracheal margin (A4 L3), separated by a thin layer of fibrous tissue, and 0.2mm from the anterolateral margin (A2) separated by striated muscle, in an area in which the muscle appears disrupted.  
One (1) of two (2) perithyroid lymph nodes towards the superior aspect of the lobe contains an 8mm deposit of metastatic papillary thyroid carcinoma (A12) with predominantly papillary architecture and associated psammomatous calcification.  No extrathyroidal extension is seen. 
Away from the tumour the thyroid shows features consistent with Hashimoto's thyroiditis with an accentuated lobular architecture, moderate lymphocytic thyroiditis including germinal centre formation, patchy follicular atrophy and patchy Hurthle cell metaplasia.  An incidental 3mm parathyroid gland (A8) is also present towards the superior pole.  
B.  The left thyroid gland has been entirely embedded and examined.  An incidental 0.7mm papillary microcarcinoma is present at the superior pole, 0.7mm clear of the posterior/tracheal resection margin. The remainder of the lobe shows changes consistent with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.  No perithyroid lymph nodes or parathyroid glands are seen.  
C.  Sections show a nodule of benign thyroid tissue showing lymphocytic thyroiditis, surrounding adipose tissue and a small amount of skeletal muscle.  Noevidence of malignancy is seen.  No parathyroid glands or perithyroid lymph nodes are seen. 
D.  Seven (7) of twenty-two (22) central neck lymph nodes contain metastatic papillary carcinoma. The carcinoma has a mixed follicular and papillary architecture and there is scattered associated psammomatous calcification.  The deposits range in size from 0.4mm up to 2mm in maximum dimension and no definite extranodal extension is seen.  
There is also thymic tissue with a normal cortical and medullary architecture and a normal 0.6mm intrathymic parathyroid gland.  
DIAGNOSIS:  
A-D.  Right and left hemithyroids, precricoid tissue and central neck lymph nodes:
-    32mm papillary thyroid carcinoma within right lobe
-    Several foci of extrathyroidal extension
-    Margins close but clear (<0.1mm posterior/tracheal, 0.2mm anterior)
-    Incidental 0.7mm papillary microcarcinoma left lobe, margins clear
-    8/23 lymph nodes containing metastatic papillary carcinoma, no extranodal extension seen.
-    Background Hashimoto's thyroiditis, including nodule inprecricoid tissue
-    One incidental right superior normal parathyroid gland
-    Thymic tissue containingparathyroid gland in central neck dissection.

