
Episode No:  53G303128Z
5323031.FVZ

BRANAGAN, SHIZUKO 
Lab No:  53G30312
East Squantum
BERRI  WA  2730
Specimen: Tissue.O.B:  1/12/1999
Sex:  F
Collected: 17/6/2063 at :
Location:  Peter Mac - GUNNEDAH DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR CALLUM Tharawal Yanos
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Ovarian cancer interval debulking.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, right tube & ovary" consists of a uterus with attached cervix, right fallopian tube and right ovary weighing 105g in total.  The uterus measures 70 x 50 x 42mm and has a haemorrhagic but smooth serosal surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 1mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 18mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  There is a white smooth nodule on the posterior surface of the endometrium measuring 14 x 5mm.  The right fallopian tube measures 55mm in length x 10mm in maximum diameter.  The right ovary isadherent to the distal half of the fallopian tube, and is enveloped by a brown/tan haemorrhagic tumour. The right ovary and tumour measures 40 x 25 x 20mm.  Representative in 15 blocks.  
Blocks:  1 to 3 - full longitudinal sectionof anterior body and cervix; 4 to 6 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix (5&6 - white endometrial nodule); 7 - left fallopian tube stump; 8 - left parametrial tissue; 9 - right parametrial tissue; 10 & 11 - representative fallopian tube; 12 to 15 - representative right ovary and tumour; 16 & 17 - re-select.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary" consists of a fallopian tube with attached ovary and tumour measuring in total 68 x 60 x 30mm.  The fallopian tube is 52mm in length x 7mm in maximum diameter.  The fallopian tube is adherent to a ragged exophytictan mass which appears to arise from the ovary.  There is one smooth encapsulated area which on sectioning contains soft tan projections. Representative in 8 blocks.  
Blocks:  1- fallopian tube; 2 to 8 - representative of tumour and ovary; 9 to 11 - re-select.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring in to total 230 x 120 x 20mm.  There are numerous tumour deposits in the omentum, the largest measuring 90 x 20 x 15mm.  Representative in 3 blocks (Block 1 for tumour banking).  
D.  Specimen labelled "Appendix" consists of an appendix measuring 45mm in length x 5mm in maximum dimension.  There is attached mesoappendix to a length of 15mm.  The tip ofthe appendix is haemorrhagic.  The serosal surface is smooth and shiny.  The wall thickness is 2mm.  The mucosa appears unremarkable.  AE 3 blocks.  1 - proximal surgical margin and two LS proximal; 2 - three TS mid; 3- two LS distal.  
E.Specimen labelled "Rectal nodule" consists of a tan piece of tissue measuring 5 x 4 x 2mm.  AE 1 block.  (TO: FY; KZ/mm 18.6.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr O Hillseth): 
A.  Sections of the cervix are unremarkable.  Sections of the endometrium show that this is thin and inactive.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  On the serosa of the anterior uterus there is adherent fibrofat and within this tissue there is moderately differentiated serous carcinoma.  Serous carcinoma also invades the outer myometrium of the left cornu.  Elsewhere on the serosa there are scattered psammoma bodies and occasional malignant cells, consistent with treated serous carcinoma.  
Sections of the left parametrial soft tissue show scattered deposits of serous carcinoma.  Sections of the left fallopian tube show serous carcinoma focally involving the fimbrial end but no definite carcinoma in situ is seen and the tube elsewhere is unremarkable.  Sections of the left ovary show involvement by moderately differentiated serous carcinoma, with little evidence of treatment effect.  No sarcomatous component is seen in the ovarian tumour or elsewhere.  
B.  Sections of the fallopian tube show poorly differentiated serous carcinoma on the serosa at the fimbrial end.  The tube is otherwise unremarkable.  Sections of the ovary show involvement by moderately differentiated serous carcinoma, with little evidence oftreatment effect.  No sarcomatous component is seen.  
C.  Sections show fibrofat with involvement by poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  There is some evidence of treatment effect, with replacement of between 10 and 50%of the tumour by fibrous and fibroblastic tissue.  No sarcomatous component is seen.  
D.  Sections show appendix.  There is fibrous obliteration of much of the lumen.  A few scattered psammoma bodies are identified on the serosal surface and within the subserosal tissue and there are a few tumour cells identified very focally.  
E.  Sections show fibrous tissue with involvement by malignant tumour.  The tumour consists of poorly differentiated serous carcinoma but also there is a component of malignant spindle cell stromal tumour.  The features are most consistent with a malignant mixed mullerian tumour. 
Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr O Seary. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, right tube and ovary:  Moderately differentiated serous carcinoma right ovary with involvement of fimbrial end of right tube, left parametrial soft tissue and uterine serosa.  
B.  Left tube and ovary:  Moderately differentiated serous carcinoma.  
C.  Omentum:  Serous carcinoma.  
D.  Appendix:  Focal serous carcinoma in subserosal tissue.  
E.  Rectal nodule:  Malignant mixed mullerian tumour. 
 

