Episode No:  43D966238M
4319662.JXM

VANVRANKEN, Syeda SHONDRA 
Lab No:  43D96623
Treaty Elm
MUSWELLBROOK  ACT  3273
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  14/4/1984
Sex:  F
Collected: 27/06/2013 at 16:09
Location:  Peter Mac-WESTERN DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICE - COLERAINE
DR STEVEN EZEKIEL LIRIANO
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:  (24.9.63) CYTOGENETICS REPORT

CLINICAL:
Left axillary sarcoma.  Long lateral, short superior, medium medial.  Double axillary vein margin.  Loop latissimus dorsi.  Four pieces of tissue sent for cytogenetics. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Left axillary tissue long lateral, short superior, medium medial loop on latissimus dorsi double stitch vein margin", consists of a large piece of adipose tissue with overlying skin and five sutures for orientation as above.  The specimen measures 210mm (medial to lateral), 70mm (superior to inferior), 110 (superficial to deep).  On the surface of the skin there is a nodular erythematous area measuring 35 x 30mm.  The specimen is inked blue superior margin, black inferior margin andred latissimus dorsi margin.  The specimen is serially sectioned from medial to lateral.  On sectioning there is a large solid and cystic mass with necrotic appearance measuring 150mm from medial to lateral up to 100mm from superior to inferior, 110mm from  superficial to deep.  Microscopically the tumour abuts the superficial margin.  Approximately 90% of the tumour is necrotic.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - representative sections superior margin; 4 and 5 inferior margin; 6 and 7 - representative sections deep margin; 8 and 9 - representative sections lateral margins; 10 and 11 - representative sections medial margin; 12 and 13 - two representative sections latissimus dorsi margin; 14 and 15 - representative sections axillary vein margin; 16 and 17 - representative sections of the tumour from the cystic area; 18 and 19 - representativetumour; 20 and 21 - tumour with skin.
Block 1 reserved block.  (micro specimen seen by Dr ROMILLY Sinegal) 
(QT/vo 27.8.63)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr L Lella)
Sections of the left axillary lesion show an undifferentiated FNCLCC Grade 3 pleomorphic sarcoma (pleomorphic MFH). The sarcoma is composed of malignant epithelioid to spindle cells arranged in highly cellular infiltrative lobules and sheets. The malignant cells have highly pleomorphic vesicular nuclei, variably prominent rhabdoid eosinophilic cytoplasm and prominent cherry-pink nucleoli. Scattered bizarre bi and multinucleated tumour cells are also present. In areas, the tumour cells are separated by variably thick hyalinised fibrocollagenous-type septae. The sarcoma shows brisk mitotic active, with over 70 mitoses per 10 hpf, including abundant atypical mitoses. Focal lymphovascular space and perineural invasion are seen (block 1). There are broad areas of serpiginous, suppurative necrosis throughout the entire tumour (involving >50% - ?treatment related). No cytoplasmic pigment, malignant osteoid or chondroid differentiation is identified. The overlying skin shows reactive change and an organising dermocutaneous abscess, possibly related to previous surgery. At the deep and peripheral aspects, the sarcoma is surrounded by a variably thick cuff of mature fibroadipose tissue and portions of skeletal muscle, with areas of fat necrosis and a patchy myofibroblastic proliferation. A single epithelioid granuloma is present within the skeletal muscle (stains for organisms are negative). Sections through the axillary vein margin show numerous medium sized vessels, as well as, variably dense fibrocollagenous tissue. A small amount of lymphoid tissue is present at the edge of the tumour focally, and may represent an effaced lymph node. Two intact lymph nodes are also present in the surrounding fat, both of which show mild reactive changes. 
MARGINS OF EXCISION:
The margins of excision are as follows:
Deep margin: 0.1mm (block 6).
Inferior margin: 0.25mm (block 5).
Superior margin: 0.3mm (block 2). 
Axillary vein margin: 1.0mm (block 14). 
Latissimus dorsi margin: 6.6mm (block 13). 
Anterior margin (superficial skin margin): >10mm(blocks 17, 20 & 21).  
Medial margin: >10mm (blocks 10/11). 
Lateral margin: >10mm (block 8/9).

FNCLCC GRADE = 3
Tumour differentiation score: 3.
Tumour mitotic count score: 3.
Microscopic tumour necrosis score: 3.
IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:
Immunohistochemical stains were performed and the results are as follows:
Sarcoma cells positive for: Vimentin (diffuse, strong), SMA and Pan-cytokeratin (very occasional isolated positive cells). 
Sarcoma cells negative for: Melan-A, S100, LCA, C34, desmin, HMB45, myogenin. 
COMMENT:
The left axillary tumour is an undifferentiated FNCLCC Grade3 pleomorphic sarcoma (pleomorphic MFH). Immunohistochemical markers of epithelial, smooth muscle, melanocytic, skeletal muscle and vascular differentiation are essentially negative. The tumour shows focal lymphovascular and perineural invasion, as well as, broad areas of serpiginous suppurative necrosis (?treatment related). The sarcoma extends very close to the deep, inferior and superior margins. 

DIAGNOSIS:
Left axillary tumour: Undifferentiated FNCLCC Grade 3 pleomorphic sarcoma (pleomorphic MFH), close to margins. 

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:  (24.9.63)
CYTOGENETICS REPORT - THOMAS EMBLING HOSPITAL'S HOSPITAL.
Reported by L Barthe,  Validated by Dr L Villacis. 
"Karyotype:
No mitoses.
Comment:
No metaphases were obtained from this sample". 



