
Episode No:71K364199O
7143641.XZO

Brevard, LEIA VERA 
Lab No:  71K36419,71K36419
Fir Toll
MAFFRA  NT  4372
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  18/9/2015
Sex:  F
Collected: 08/04/2014 at 10:00
Location:  WARIALDA MULTIPURPOSE SERVICE
DR Mervin FOWLSTON
Distribution:  DR Cornelius, DR Nigel,  FILE-COPY, DR Nigro,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (1) ATTACHED 18/6/64 MMRP IHC
HISTORY:  
Complex atypical hyperplasia ? adenoca.  Mirena IUCD in situ.  FHx Bowel ca.  
Uterus, tubes and ovaries. For histopath and MSI if appropriate.
MACROSCOPIC:  
'CERVIX, UTERUS, LEFT AND RIGHT TUBES AND OVARIES'.  A uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 178g in total.  The uterus measures 85x50x45mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 35x40mm and has an unremarkable appearance.  The uterus is open through thelateral walls receipt of the specimen.  There is a mirena IUD within the endometrial cavity.  There is a pale sessile/low polypoid endometrial tumour within the posterior and anterior endometrium, measuring 30x15mm in area, and about 5 mm in thickness, located predominantly within the anterior uterine body. 
The myometrium is up to 25mm in thickness. The area of tumour appears is 70mm from the cervical os. Extent of myometrial invasion if present is difficult to assess but probably < 5mm. The right fallopian tube is 70mm in length x 8mm in maximum diameter. There is a tubal ligation clip within the middle of the tube.  The right ovary measures 40x27x22mm and there is a smooth lined unilocular cyst which is filled with clear hemoserous fluid.  The rest of the ovary appears unremarkable. The left fallopian tube measures 68mm in length x 5mm in maximum diameter. There is a tubal ligation clip in the middle of the tube.  The left ovary measures 30x23x18mm and the ovary has a multiloculated smooth lined cyst filled with hemoserous fluid.  The rest of the ovary appears unremarkable.   (1 anterior cervix; 2 anterior uterine body; 3 anterior uterine body with polypoid lesion; 4 left cornu; 5-8 four LS of posterior body and cervix; 9 right cornu; 10-13 polypoid lesion on posterior uterine body; 14 right fallopian tube; 15and16 right ovary; 17and18 left fallopian tube; 19and20 left ovary).  RS (M-20/XE/ank) Further: 21 R vaginal cuff; 22,23 R,L parametrium; 24 L posterior body; 25 L posterior cornu area; LV
MICROSCOPIC:  
There is an invasive endometrioid adenocarcinoma involving body and fundus.  Parts of the tumour are grade 2, however there are several relatively large solid areas of carcinoma and overall tumour is best considered FIGO Grade 3.  There is myometrial invasion present limitedto inner half of myometrium. There is relatively extensive lymphovascular invasion present at the deep edge of the tumour, with carcinoma in lymphatics extending into about half the thickness of myometrium.
ENDOMETRIAL CARCINOMA:
   Tumour type:  Endometrioid adenocarcinoma, NOS
   Grade:  FIGO grade 3
Myometrial invasion:  
   PRESENT, invasion limited to inner half of myometrium
   Carcinoma invades 4 mm through myometriumof 25 mm thickness 
   (Invasion into approximately 15 % of myometrial thickness)
Lymphovascular invasion:  
   PRESENT and extensive
Involvement of cervix:  
   Not involved
Uterineperitoneal surface involvement:  
   Not involved 
Lymph nodes:  
   No separate lymph node specimens, and no lymph nodes identified in specimen
Excision margins:  
   Paracervical margins are negative for tumour
Other tissues:
Non-tumour endometrium: 
    Focal gland crowding; possible focal complex hyperplasia (difficult to separate from adenocarcinoma). Focal stromal predecidual change (Mirena effect).
Cervix:
    Ectocervix: negative for tumour
    Endocervix: negative for tumour; microglandular hyperplasia
Vaginal cuff: 
    normal
Ovaries and fallopian tubes:
    Negative fortumour. Benign simple cysts present.
Other tests:
Mismatch repair enzymes (Immunostains):  pending
FIGO stage (2008):  IA (1A) (on this specimen; no lymph node sampling)
DIAGNOSIS:  
UTERUS, TUBES AND OVARIES -
- endometrioid adenocarcinoma, FIGO grade 3; 
- myometrial invasion present limited to inner half of myometrium;
- extensive lymphovascular invasion present.
16/6/64, T Ochs.  (MMRP IHC pending)
- - - -
Supplementary report: (1)
Immunostains for DNA Mismatch Repair (MMR) proteins (block 12):
Result:
MLH1, PMS2:  ABNORMAL (loss of staining)
MSH2 and MSH6:  Normal staining (intact expression)
Comment: 
Immunohistochemistry of cancer tissues for mismatch repair proteins is a surrogate marker for MSI status, with an absence of one or more of the mismatch repair proteins considered an abnormal result.  Tumours that show loss of MMR proteins are almost always characterised by microsatellite instability (MSI-H).   MSI in endometrial (and colorectal) cancer results from defective DNA MMR, either due to germline-inactivating DNA MMR mutations (Lynch syndrome patients), or epigenetic inactivation of the MLH1 gene by promoterhypermethylation (sporadic tumors).   Approximately 20% to 30% of endometrial carcinomas have microsatellite instability, and an epigenetic (sporadic) cause of MSI is more common than Lynch syndrome.  Correlation with family history and other findings recommended.

18/6/64, T Nicometo.  

