
Episode No:  00Q476389T
0064763.XZT

Aulder, Roxana 
Lab No:  00Q47638
E Pierce
FREELING  WA  3224
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  28/8/2008
Sex:  M
Collected: 16/05/2014 at 14:45
Location:  IMVS-KING EDWARD MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
DR Anderson Hamish Dibble
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
RCC right kidney invading liver, further liver lesion 4a.  1. En bloc resection of R kidney and cuff of liver.  2. Seg IV a liver lesion.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right kidney plus attached liver resection", consists of right kidney and perirenal fat with a piece of attached liver measuring in aggregate 200 x 100 x 70mm and weighing 543g.  The ureter measures 70mm in length and 5 mm in maximum diameter andappears patent.  The kidney measures 110mm (superior to inferior), 65mm (right to left) and 70mm (anterior to posterior).  On sectioning, in the upper pole, there is a solid white/tan fibrotic tumour, 45 x 40 x 40mm. There is no macroscopic evidence of necrosis or haemorrhage. The tumour infiltrates into the perirenal fat in an area measuring 25 mm in maximum diameter.The tumor within the perirenal fat extends up to 10mm from the renal capsule and 15mm from the adrenal gland. The tumour invades into the overlying liver up to 10 mm in maximum depth and is located 10mm from the adjacent closest hepatic surgical margin.  The renal pelvis is unremarkable.  No tumour is macroscopically seen in the perihilar fat.  The renal vein appears dilated by tumour and is up to 15mm in maximum diameter. A small deposit of tumour 5 mm in maximum diameter is seen in the lower pole of the kidney, it is located 17mm away from the main tumour.  
Blocks: 1 - TS of ureter margin; 2 - TS renal vein and renal artery surgical margin; 3 - TS of renal vein with tumour; 4 to 10- one full face of tumour with perirenal fat deposit; 11 to 14 - one full face of tumour with a kidney; 15 - second small deposit of tumour away from main tumour; 16 and 17 -composite of tumour within perirenal fat; 18 - tumour close to adrenal gland; 19 - section of liverwith tumour; 20 and 21 - composite of renal vein with tumour and hilar fat; 22 - hilar fat with renal pelvis; 23 - normal appearing kidney; 24 - normal appearing kidney; 25 - representative section of liver with tumour.
B.  Specimen labelled "Liver resection segment 4 tumour", consists of a segment of unorientated liver measuring 30 x 30 x 20mm.  On sectioning there is a white well circumscribed nodule measuring 7 x 7 x 8mm.  There is a small area of haemorrhage located 7mm from the surgical margin.  Representative sections in 2 blocks.
(PQ/vo 21.7.64) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr A Mcaskill)
A.  The 45mm right kidney tumour is a conventional clear cell renal cell carcinoma. The carcinoma has alobulated appearance and is composed of sheets and nodules of carcinoma cells with moderately pleomorphic nuclei, variably prominent nucleoli and clear cytoplasm. The tumour cellsare arranged in solid and trabecular patterns and are surrounded by a prominent anastomosing network of blood vessels. Although the nuclei show predominantly Fuhrman grade 3 features, in areas, there is spindle cell (sarcomatoid) change, consistent with an overall Fuhrman grade 4tumour. At the superior pole of the kidney, carcinoma infiltrates through the renal capsule into perinephric adipose tissue and is seen 0.3mm from the inked perinephric fat margin. Focally, carcinoma extends beyond the perinephric fat and into a cuff of overlying partially adherent liver tissue. Tumour within the liver tissue appears clear of the surrounding inked hepatic surgical margins (>5.5mm). 
At the hilum, tumour nodules abut hilar fat. Tumour is present within the lumen of the renal vein and appears partially incorporated into the renal vein wall. Tumour is not present in the section of the renal vein margin, renal artery margin or ureteric margin. The adjacent non-neoplastic renal parenchymashows patchy glomerulosclerosis and mild chronic inflammation. The adrenal gland appears within normal histologic limits and shows no involvement by carcinoma. 
B.  Sections of the liver tumour show a nodule of conventional clear cell renal cell carcinoma. The tumour does not involve the hepatic capsule and is clear of the surgical margin (5.0mm). 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right kidney and liver: 
45mm conventional clear cell renal cell carcinoma with focal sarcomatoid morphology (Fuhrman grade 4). 
At the superior pole of the kidney, carcinoma infiltrates perinephric adipose tissue and the overlying adherent cuff of liver tissue. 
Carcinoma is 0.3mm from the perinephric fat margin and is clear of the hepatic surgical margins (>5.0mm).
Carcinoma abuts renal sinus fat and extends into the renal vein but is not present in the renal vein, renal artery or ureteric resection margins. 

B.  Liver resection (segment 4): Nodule of conventional clear cell renal cell carcinoma, margins appear clear.



 


