Episode No:  90E538393E
901538.JZH

SOLON, Merrill 
Lab No:  90E53839
Kruhm
LAUNCHING PLACE  TAS  3556
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  5/2/2039
Sex:  F
Collected: 11/8/2064 at :
Location:  ONCOLOGY (GYNAE)-GRIFFITH BASE HOSPITAL
DR BOYCE Mike SUMP
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
1.  Right hemihepatectomy.  2.  Peritoneal nodule.  Previous (R) nephrectomy & liver resection for atypical renal cell carcinoma.   Freezing of tumour for genotyping & molecular mapping.  
Additional:
Frozen tumour to be held at PETERBOROUGH CAMPUSfor potential genotype/ molecular mapping at Jones Apparel Group as per Prof Y Hillian (ND).

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right liver" consists of a portion of liver 140 x 70 x 70mm with a large circumscribed tumour 60 x 60 x 60mm.  As the tumour was openedprior to fixation the capsular surface appears disrupted however on further sectioning the tumour appears to abut the capsule surface but not penetrate through it.  There are some small amounts of fibrinous material overlying this area.  The tumour appears to come within 4mm of the surgical resection margin.  The remainder of the liver appears unremarkable.  Tumour and non tumour frozen and biobanked(by ZO 1200 06.09.14)
Blocks:  1 & 2 - tumour to surgical resection margin; 3 to 6 - further tumour to capsular surface; 7 - ?tumour on capsule; 8- uninvolved liver; 9 - reserved block/
B.  Specimen labelled "Peritoneal nodule" consists of a piece of fatty tissue measuring 45 x 35 x 15mm.  A well circumscribed nodule is identified measuring 20mm in maximum dimension.  Nodule is serially sectioned AE 2 blocks. Tumour and non tumour frozen and biobanked (by LY 1200 06.09.14)
(TO: FT:  CO/mm 11.10.64) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reportedby Dr Y Jergen & Dr Y Fouquet)
A.  Section of the livershow a 60mm deposit of metastatic carcinoma. The carcinoma is relatively well circumscribed with a thin fibrous pseudocapsule at the advancing edge. The tumour has a mixed papillary, alveolar and nested architecture with large areas of haemorrhage. The cells are large and polygonal with abundant clear to granular eosinophilic cytoplasm with patchy intracytoplasmic Schmorls positive melanin. The nuclei are central to eccentrically located with coarse to vesicular chromatin and prominent nucleoli.  There are also occasional cells with large pleomorphic nuclei and/or multiple nuclei, prominent macronucleoli, consistent with Fuhrmann and ISUP grade 4. In some areas there are vaguely nodular areas of smaller cells surrounded by areas of larger more pleomorphic cells.  Rare foci of psammomatous calcifications are seen.  Mitosis are inconspicuous (less than 1/10 hpf) and there are patchy small foci of necrosis comprising than 5% of the tumour.  There are patchy foci of intratumoural acute and subacute haemorrhage. 
In areas the tumour abuts the liver capsule or is separated from it by intervening compressed hepatic parenchyma.  There is associated overlying capsular organising haemorrhage, however, no capsular penetration is seen.  The surgical resection margin is 5mm clear.  Thereare two foci highly suspicious for lymphovascular invasion adjacent to the subcapsular edge of the tumour (A3).  
The current subcapsular hepatic deposit shows similar features to the previously excised deposit on the capsular surface of the liver (90E53839) and paracaval lymph nodes metastases (90E53839) and is consistent with metastatic Xp11 translocation carcinoma (original renal primary diagnosis by Dr Y Drott and Dr Y Jelsma in nephrectomy specimen (YAE53839-31DX). 
Adjacent to the tumour there are scatted foci of granulomatous inflammation  including foci containing polarisable suture material consistent with previous surgery.  No pathogenic organisms are seen on dPAS or Fite stains. 
The uninvolved liver displays a preserved lobular architecture. There are occasional degenerate neutrophils and lymphocytes within the portal tracts most likely due to surgery. There is no significant interface hepatitis, lobular inflammation, steatosis or fibrosis. No iron deposition or intrahepatic bile seen on Perls or Halls staining.
B.  Sections show fibroadipose tissue containing a 20mm deposit of metastatic carcinoma with similar features to the liver tumour, consistent with metastatic Xp11 translocation renal carcinoma. No lymphovascular invasion is seen.

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right liver:
-    60mm subcapsular deposit consistent with metastatic Xp11 translocation renal carcinoma, margin clear.
B.  Peritoneal nodule:
 -   Consistent with metastatic Xp11 translocation renal carcinoma.

