
Episode No:  65Q3654531
6563654.OJE

Jutte, KAI P 
Lab No:  65Q36545
Gold Gulch
MERIMBULA  Queensland  2101
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  5/11/2007
Sex:  F
Collected: 02/09/2014 at 11:42
Location:  ACUTECARE WARD-WEST COAST DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR Lerrk JACKIE Hanni
Distribution:   FILE-COPY, DR Lichtenberger,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

CLINICAL:
Lymphoma.  Duodenal uptake on PET scan.
Result required for multidisciplinary meeting on Friday.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Fundal bx" consists of a 3mm biopsy.  AE 1 block.
B.  Specimen labelled "Antral bx" consists of a 5mm biopsy.  AE 1 block.
C.  Specimen labelled "Duodenal bx" consists of four 3 to4mm biopsies.  AE 1 block.
(TO: YA; XD/rt 11.4.64)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by DrP Poff)
A.  Sections show gastric acid secreting mucosa with a very mild chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate within the lamina propria. No Helicobacter organisms are seen.There is no evidence of intestinal metaplasia, dysplasia or malignancy.
B.  Sections show gastric junctional mucosa with a patchy mild chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate within the lamina propria. No Helicobacter organismsare seen. There is no evidence of intestinal metaplasia, dysplasia or malignancy.
C.  Sections show four biopsies of small bowel mucosa. The overall villous architecture is preserved. In two of the biopsies, there is a moderate to heavy atypical infiltrate of inflammatory cells within the lamina propria, crypt and surface epithelium. The inflammation consists of small monotonous lymphocytes, plasma cell and scattered histiocytes. In addition, the lamina propria contains three atypical follicles, consisting predominantly of small centrocytes. The follicles contain less than 5 centroblasts per high power field. No granulomas or pathogenic organisms are identified. No large atypical lymphocytes are seen. There is no evidence of large cell lymphoma.
IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:
Immunohistochemical stains were performed and the results are as follows:
CD10 and BCL-2 highlight the atypical (neoplastic) follicles.
CD20 highlights the moderate to heavy atypical lymphocytic infiltrate within two of four biopsies.
CD3, CD5 and CD43 highlight admixed T-cells.
Cyclin D1 is negative.
A ki-67 immunoproliferative index highlights up to 2% of atypical lymphocytes.
COMMENT:
Two of the four small bowel biopsies show an atypical lymphoid infiltrate with an overall morphologic and immunohistochemical appearance consistent with a low grade Non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphoma of follicular type. There is no evidence of large cell lymphoma. Correlationwith clinical, flow cytometry and previous pathology results is required. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Gastric fundus biopsy: No significant histologic abnormality.

B.  Gastric antral (junctional) biopsy: Mild non-specific chronic gastritis.

C.  Small bowel biopsy: Consistent with low grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma of follicular type. No evidence of large cell lymphoma. 
Please see comment. 





