
Episode No:  03P413525U
0364135.GOU

Rominger, Vikki B 
Lab No:  03P41352
Cedar Gables
NEW NORFOLK  Tasmania  3663
Specimen: Tissue.O.B:  23/1/2004
Sex:  F
Collected: 09/09/2014 at 13:30
Location:  ACUTECARE WARD-HUNTER NEW ENGLAND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICE
PRO Ismael GAYLE Housand
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
Metastatic appendix cancer, peritonectomy.  Liver segment 3, large bowel - right colon, gallbladder, spleen, omentum, cervix.
MACROSCOPIC:  
A.  "PART OF LIVER SEGMENT 3".  Piece of liver 20x20x10mm.  AE (5-4)
B.  "SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, R COLON, RECTOSIGMOID, OMENTUM, PERITONEUM".  Spleen weighing 124g which is 120x70x40mm.  There are numerous nodules on theexternal surface.
(1 spleen with nodule)
Gallbladder - the gallbladder is 100x35mm and does not have a staple over the cystic duct.  There is a nodule 4mm in diameter on the serosal surface, otherwise the serosalsurface is smooth and shiny.  The wall is 5mm in thickness and the mucosal surface is green and granular.  No stones are present in the lumen.
(2 cystic duct; 3 body with small nodule; 4 fundus)
Hemicolectomy -the terminal ileum 60x30mm and is unremarkable.  The colon is 300mm in length and 140mm in circumference.  The wall is 1-2mm in thickness and the rugae are attenuated diffusely.  A solid white glistening tumour is present around the caecum in the area of the appendix. This tumour is 40x40mm  Multiple other smaller nodules are present on the fatty tissue around the ileocaecal valve. No definite residual normal appendix seen.
(5terminal ileum resection margin; 6 nodule overlying terminal ileum; 7 mass directly adjacent to ileocaecal valve; 8 tumour on fatty tissue of terminal ileum; 9&10 sections of attenuated large bowel mucosa with 9 being resection margin. Blocks B24-B29 - further sections of caecum and tumour around caecum/apeendicela region 5-5 RS OW 14/11/64)
Rectosigmoid - piece of large bowel which 400mm inlength and 30mm in diameter. The wall is 60mm in thickness and rugae are diminished diffusely.  The distal end appears to be at the anterior peritoneal reflection.  On the pericolic fat there are numerous white hard nodules on the serosalsurface.  There are no abnormalities within the bowel lumen.
(11 resection margins; 12 nodules on fatty tissue serosal surface 13 lymph node)
Uterus with attached peritoneum.  The uterus is 70mm from fundus to ectocervix.  Uterine body is 60x45mm.  It is attached to an irregular shaped piece of peritoneum which is approximately 200x200x15mm. There are numerous deposits of tumour on the peritoneal surface and on the serosal surface of the uterus.  The cervix is 30x20mm and the ectocervix is 10x1mm.  A nodule 10mm in diameter is present on the left posterior aspect of the uterus and the cut surface shows mucinous tumour infiltrating into the myometrium.  No fallopian tube or ovary is present. There is a solid mucinous tumour in the right isthmus which is 30mm in diameter.
(14 cervix; 15&16 uterine body; 17 fundus; 18 nodule posterior left; 19 and 20 right isthmus mucinous tumour; peritoneal nodule adjacent to uterus)
Omentum - there are multiple pieces of omentum infiltrated and caked with tumour with a large piece of omental cake measuring 200x140x25mm.  
(21,22 and 23 sections of omentum)
C.  "COLON (REST OF SPECIMEN)".  Two pieces of pale and a piece of fatty tissue.  The first piece of bowel is 50x30mm and has a wall 5mm in thickness and normal mucosa.  No lesions are present. The second piece of bowel is 330mm in length and 180mm in circumference.  The wall is 2-3mm in thickness and the mucosa is completely attenuated.  There is attached fatty tissue and no nodules appear to be present on the external surface.  There is a tan nodule 5mm in diameter on the mucosal surface.  The third piece of tissue is fatty being 50x50x20mm.  No lesions are on the surface or section.
(1 sections from smaller piece of bowel; 2 resection margins larger piece of bowel; 3&4 further sections of bowelincluding nodule on mucosal surface; 5&6 sections of fatty tissue).  RS (M-6/RH/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:  (B Schmerer)
A.  The sections show liver with bile ducts identified within portal tracts and with preserved architecture.  There is patchy mild to moderate macrovesicular steatosis.  Within portal tracts there is patchy mild to moderate non-specific chronic inflammatory infiltrate.  Focally, a small bile duct hamartoma is identified.  
B.  The section of spleen shows normal parenchyma andon the serosal surface there is a deposit of tumour consisting of columnar mucinous epithelium with moderate cytologic atypia, multilayering, and mitotic activity and with abundant adjacent extracellular mucus. 
Sections of the gallbladder show serosal adhesions and oedema and with a small focus of small infiltrative pattern glands within a desmoplastic stromal reaction on the serosal/adventitial surface.  
Sections of the hemicolectomy specimen show unremarkable appearing proximal and distal margins.  On the serosal/adventitial surfaces, there is a moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma that infiltrates into underlying adipose tissue and with desmoplastic stromal reaction. The sections from the appendiceal region demonstrate similar tumour with possible focal residual muscularis propria that may represent residual appendiceal wall. A lymph node from this region contains metastatic adenocarcinoma.
Sections from the next described segment of bowel demonstrate mucinous adenocarcinoma on the serosal/adventitial surface with infiltration into underlying adipose tissue with desmoplastic stromal reaction.  The lymph node is unremarkable.
Sections of the cervix appear unremarkable.  The endometrium is atrophic.  Infiltrating into the myometrium from the serosal surface is moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.  The peritoneal nodule adjacent to the uterus also shows mucinous adenocarcinoma with abundant extracellular mucus.  
Sections of the omentum show moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma including desmoplastic stromal reaction.  
C.  Sections show large bowel with tubular adenoma of the mucosa.  The resection margins and the remainder of the bowel wall appear unremarkable.  There is a deposit of mucinous adenocarcinoma on the serosal surface.  
COMMENT: There is widespread moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma. The appendix is largely obliterated however the appearances could be consistent with appendiceal primary origin. Nevertheless, clinical/imaging correlation is recommended.
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  PART OF LIVER SEGMENT3:  STEATOSIS, BILE DUCT HAMARTOMA.
B.  SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, RIGHT COLON, RECTOSIGMOID, OMENTUM AND PERITONEUM: -
- MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA.
C. COLON - MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA.
14/11/2064 nh

