
Episode No:  80U683797O
8076837.YUO

KUSTRA, Arianne 
Lab No:  80U68379
Clydebank
BOWEN  Victoria  1294
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/6/1993
Sex:  F
Collected: 23/12/2014 at 14:25
Location:  NSW Health-BOWEN HOSPITAL
PRO Wilford Delbosque
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
Colorectal cancer. Peritonectomy
- Right colon
- Uterus. 
- Right ovaryOmentum
- Peritoneum.
MACROSCOPIC:  
"OMENTUM, RIGHT COLON, UTERUS, RIGHT OVARY". Consists of right hemicolectomy, uterus with right ovary and separate piece of large bowel and omentum. The right hemicolectomy specimen measures 140mm in length with a length of the terminal ileum being 55mm. The circumferenceof the terminal ileum is up to 30mm. The circumference of the large bowel is up to 65mm. There is a fungating tumour identified within the caecum, which measures 30x20mm and located at about 50mm from the proximal surgical margin, 80mm from the distal surgical margin and at about 25mm from the lateral surgical margin. The tumour obstructs the appendiceal orifice and the adjacent  appendix is grossly dilated and measures 90mm in length with diameter up to 15mm. On sectioning the tumour appears to infiltrate through the wall of the caecum into fat and extends into adjacent ileocaecal valve and terminal ileum and possibly the proximal appendix. Several local nodes are identified.Five polyps are seen in the ascending colon 3-5mm in diameter.
(1 longitudinal section of proximal surgical margin; 2 longitudinal section of distal surgical margin; 3 contains three polyps; 4 one polyp; 5 one polyp, sectioned transversely; 6 transverse section of the proximal appendix; 7 longitudinal section of proximal appendix; 8-12 transverse sections of the appendix from proximal to distal; 13 transverse section of the distal appendix; 14 longitudinal section of the distal appendix; 15 transverse section of caecum through the appendiceal orifice; 16, 17 another full face section through the caecum of the lesion; 18, 19 one more full face section through the caecum of the lesion; 20, 21 another full face section through the caecum of the lesion; 22 oneapical lymph node sectioned transversely; 23 three lymph nodes; 24 three lymph nodes; 25 five lymph nodes; 26 three lymph nodes; 27 four lymph nodes).
There is uterus with cervix in the container with attached right fallopian tube and right ovary. The uterus with cervix measures 80x40x28mm. Right fallopian tube measures 35mm in length with diameter up to 5mm. Right ovary measures 25x10x10mm. There are no obvious depositions of tumour seen within the specimen. The uterus with cervix sectioned longitudinally and the endometrium is up to 1mm in thickness. The myometrium isup to 13mm in thickness. There are no lesions identified within the uterus and cervix on the section. Representative sections are taken and embedded.
(28-35 full face section of the uterus [please see the diagram attached]; 36 representative section of the right fallopian tube; 37 representative section ofthe right ovary).
There is second piece of large bowel identified measuring 5mm in length where the diameter is up to 30mm. There are no obvious lesions seen within the lumen of the bowel on the serosal surface. There are four small possible polyps identified within this piece of bowel, all taken and embedded.
(38 longitudinal section of margin one; 39 longitudinal section of margin two; 40 foursmall polyps).
There is piece of omentum in the container measuring 350x90x15mm. There are no obvious depositions of tumour identified within the omentum. Representative sections are taken and embedded in five blocks.
(41-45 representative sections of the omentum). RS (M-35/ LZ/cy)
MACROSCOPIC FINDINGS SUMMARY
Operation type:  Right hemicolectomy
Specimen length:  140mm
Tumour site:  in caecum
Tumour size:  30x20mm
Distance from margins:  
Proximal:  50mm
Distal:  80mm
Radial:  25mm
Perforation:  Absent
MICROSCOPIC      (Dr. V. Alkana)
Tumour type:  Adenocarcinoma 
Histologic grade:  Moderately to poorly differentiated (high grade, with mucinous differentiation)
Depth of invasion:  T4a, the tumour penetrates the surface of the visceral peritoneum
Peritoneal surface involvement:Present 
Tumour infiltrating lymphocytes: Low density
Excision Margins:  
Proximal:  Clear
Distal:  Clear
Radial:  Not involveddistance to margin 25mm
Donuts:  Not received
Lymph nodes:  
Number positive:  2
Total number:  17 
Apical node:  Not identified 
Intramural vein invasion:  Not identified 
Extramural vein invasion:  Not identified 
Small vessel (lymphatic) invasion:Not identified 
Perineural invasion:  Present 
Distant metastases:  Present within right ovary 
Other findings:  
Polyps:  Five sessile serrated adenomas seen within the right colon with a further sessile serrated adenoma and three hyperplastic polyps within the separate segment of large bowel. 
Remote colon:  Unremarkable
Other:  Carcinoma directly infiltrates into the adjacent ileocaecal valve and terminal ileum and proximal appendix were there is obstruction of the appendiceal orifice by carcinoma. The appendix shows dilatation, presumably secondary to luminal obstruction with mucosal atrophy and early focal acute appendicitis. The omentum is not involved by malignancy and contains two further benign lymph nodes.
Treatment effect:  Not applicable 
Ancillary studies:  Mismatch repair enzymes, Immunostains:  to follow
Microsatellite instability (MSI):  not tested
Synthesis/stage (AJCC/UICC TNM 7):  
TNM stage:  pT4a, pN1b, pM1a
Stage grouping:IV A
Residual tumour:  R0
Comments:  
The right ovary contains a 3mm deposit of metastatic colonic adenocarcinoma. Blocks from the cervix show no atypia within the squamous or endocervical epithelium. The endometrium is atrophic with areas of adenomyosis throughout the myometrium. The right fallopian tube contains some refractile suture material surrounded by foreign body giant cell reaction but is otherwise unremarkable. 
DIAGNOSIS  
OMENTUM, COLON, UTERUS, RIGHT OVARY -
	CAECAL MODERATELY TO POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA WITH METASTASES IN 2 OUT OF 17 MESOCOLIC LYMPH NODES & A 3mm DEPOSIT WITHIN THE RIGHT OVARY.
	STAGE pT4a, pN1b, pM1a;  STAGE GROUPING IV A.

2/4/64 ht
Supplementary report: 
Immunostains for MSI proteins (Coca Cola HALLS CREEK HOSPITAL Lab; block: 21)
MLH1: normal (positive staining)
PMS2: normal (positive staining)
MSH2: normal (positive staining)
MSH6: normal (positive staining)
Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme. 
Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype. 
The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible. 
2.5.2064

