
Episode No:  65A346820Z
6503468.FBZ

Vester, Britt CARMEN 
Lab No:  65A34682
Setter
GRENFELL  Queensland5132
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  9/8/2005
Sex:  M
Collected: 25/12/2064 at :
Location:  StVincent-YEA AND DISTRICT MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
DR Jasper JAMAR KEDLEY
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
Left paraspinal sarcoma recurrence (C7-T1).  Neoadjuvant radiotherapy.  Elliptical incision including old scar (transverse).  Dissection down onto spinous process in midline (*C7-T1).  Dissection down onto spinous process and onto transverse process.  Lateral dissection on chest wall.  Palpable lesion excised with cuff of paraspinal muscles and trapezius/levator scapulae/rhomboids.  Margins close medially and deep (bony margin on SP/TP).  Marking sutures: long lateral/short superior/medium medial. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Sarcoma left posterior back stitches - short superior, medium medial, long lateral", consists of an orientated wide local excision measuring 130mm (medial to lateral) x 190mm (inferior to superior) x 55mm (superficial to deep).  There is an overlying ellipse of skin measuring 115mm (medial to lateral) x 40mm (inferior to superior). There is a scar centred in the lateral portion of the skin which runs for a length of 70mm. The superior margin is inked blue, the inferior margin is inked red and the deep margin is inked black.  The specimen is serially sectioned in the parasagittal plane into eleven slices from slice 1 - medial to slice 11 - lateral.  In slices 1-4 there is a cream cystic lesion measuring 52mm (medial to lateral) x 38mm (inferior to superior) x 35mm (superficial to deep).  The lesion appears to come close to the deep, inferior, medial, 50mm from the superior margin and well clear of the lateral margin.  The cut surface of the tumour appears cream with several haemorrhagic foci and cystic dilatation.  Blocks 1-3 - LS slice 1; 4 & 5 - slice 2; 6 - tumour slice 3; 7 - separate piece of tumour for immunoperoxidase stains; 8-10 - representative slice 4; 11 - representative slice 5; 12 - LS slice 11. Please refer to attached diagram.  (TO: GK/ec  26.12.64) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr R Bilello) 
Sections of the 53mm paraspinal lesion confirm the presence of recurrent sarcoma. The sarcoma has variably infiltrative margins and is partially surrounded by dense fibrocollagenous tissue and skeletal muscle. The sarcoma is moderately cellular and consists of highly pleomorphic epithelioid to stellate cells arranged in sheets and ill defined fascicles within fibromyxoid stroma. The tumour cells show coarsely clumped vesicular chromatin with variably prominent nucleoli. Scattered multinucleate and occasional bizarre cells are present. The tumour contains numerous small calibre blood vessels, including some larger haemangio-pericytomatous vessels, many of which show mural fibrosis, fibrinoid change and luminal thrombi, in keeping with the history of radiotherapy. The tumour shows scattered foci of haemorrhagic cystic change, but discrete foci of necrosis are inconspicuous. There are scattered mitoses. No diagnostic lymphovascular space invasion or perineural invasion is seen. 
The margins of excision are as follows:
Medial margin: Positive.
Deep margin: Positive (over a broad front). 
Superficial margin: 1.1mm (block 5). 
Superior margin: 1.6mm (block 5).
Inferior margin: 2.2mm (block 5).
Lateral margin: Clear of tumour (>10mm).
IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:
Tumour cells positive for: desmin (strong diffuse); C-Kit (very focal); bcl-2.
Tumour cells negative for: AE!/AE3, CD34, HMB45, MelanA, S100, myogenin, pancytokeratin, SMA and S100.
A ki-67 immunoproliferative index highlights up to 15% of tumour cell nuclei. 
COMMENT:
The 53mm paraspinal lesion shows features consistent with recurrent sarcoma. The morphology and pattern of immunohistochemical staining is similar to that the previously reportedcore biopsy (65A34682) and would be in keeping with a (pleomorphic) leiomyosarcoma.The tumour shows high grade cytologic atypia (tumour differentiation score = 3), however, formal histologic grading was not performed as it may be unreliable after neoadjuvant therapy. 
The tumour contains scattered vessels showing changes consistent withradiotherapy. However, there is no significant tumour necrosis (ie. poor treatment response). The medial and deep margins are positive. 

DIAGNOSIS:
Left paraspinal lesion: Recurrent sarcoma with features consistent with (pleomorphic) leiomyosarcoma, present at medial and deep margins.  
(See comment).






