 840629.ARM
WESTRAY, ZADIE VALENTIN
84B62906

Last edited : 26/8/2063		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Family hx of breast cancer.  Bilateral nipple - sparing mastectomy.  MRI/US/mammogram NAD.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right breast, long lateral, short superior" consists of an orientated nipple sparing mastectomy measuring 150mm (medial to lateral) x 140mm (inferior to superior) x 35mm (superficial to deep).  The superficial margin is inked blue and the deep margin black.  Two sutures are in situ at designated.  No nipple was identified or marked on the specimen.  No suspicious lesions are identified. 
Blocks: 1 & 2 - representative inner upper quadrant; 3 & 4 - representative outer upper quadrant; 5 & 6 - outer lower quadrant; 7 & 8 - representative inner lower quadrant; 9 - tissue from centre of specimen.
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Left breast, short superior, long lateral" consists of an orientated skin and nipple sparing mastectomy measuring 135mm (medial to lateral) x 170mm (inferior to superior) x 30mm (superficial to deep).  The superficial margin is inked blue and the deep margin black.  No nipple was identified or marked on the specimen.  No suspicious lesions are identified. 
Blocks: 1 & 2 - representative inner upper quadrant; 3 & 4 - representative outer upper quadrant; 5 & 6 - outer lower quadrant; 7 & 8 - representative inner lower quadrant; 9 - representative centre of specimen.
C.  Specimen labelled "Tissue from behind right nipple" consists of multiple fragments of cream and fatty tissue from 1 to 25mm.   AE 2 blocks.
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Tissue from behind left nipple" consists of fragments of fatty and cream tissue measuring from 6 to 12mm.   AE1 block.   (FL/ta 23/8/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr W Betker):
Ato D.  Sections show normal appearing breast tissue with no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of in-situ or invasive malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right breast - No significant abnormality.
B.  Left breast - No significant abnormality.
C.  Tissue from behind right nipple - No significant abnormality.
D.  Tissue from behind left nipple - No significant abnormality.

