SPR no: 31W046763B
MRN no: 31804676
Site_name: YARRA RANGES HEALTH
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Retroperitoneal tumour (?sarcoma). Para-aortic mass. Core needle biopsy (DHM) reported high grade sarcomatoid  tumour. Previous history of a testicular germ cell tumour approximately 13yrs ago and had retroperitoneal lymph node dissection. Para-aortic tumour en block resection with infra-renal aorta.

Confirmed with Dr SHAWN DEANGELES (surgical oncology fellow) that main specimen does not require formal orientation as tumour macroscopically extend to margins (AP 16/3/71).


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Para-cable mass (?sarcoma)&amp;quot;, consists of a 25 x 15 x 10mm nodule with a cream and vaguely nodular cut surface. Bisected and half embedded for frozen section.  Blocks: 1 - frozen section; 2 - remaining tissue. AE.
B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Peri-aortic tumour&amp;quot;, consists of a segment of aorta 43mm long to a diameter of 17mm (lumen 10mm) with surrounding adherent soft tissue, 50 x 42 x 35mm. Tissue is sampled fresh for biobanking. No anatomical landmarks are present for definite orientation (confirmed with surgical team orientation not required). The tissue is arbitrarily inked blue and black. The cut surface shows heterogeneous soft tissue surrounding a fibrotic aortic wall with focal fatty streaks. Whilst heterogeneous soft tissue may represent tumour, no measurable discrete lesion is identified. Numerous lymph nodes measuring up to 7mm in greatest dimension are distributed throughout the soft tissue. No tumour thrombus or luminal thrombus formation is seen. Blocks: 1 - TS one end (partial aorta); 2 - full face of tumour (big block); 3 to 5 - composite section; 6 to 8 - composite section; 9 &amp;amp; 10 - composite section; 11 - TS shave other end aorta. Macroscopic photo available.
C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left retro-caval&amp;quot;, consists of a nodular piece of tan and white tissue, 13 x 6 x 5mm.   AE 1 block.
D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right superior renal mass&amp;quot;, consists of an irregular piece of fibrofatty tissue, 35 x 28 x 13mm. The cut surface has a heterogeneous fibrofatty appearance. Blocks: 1 - TS ends; 2 &amp;amp; 3 - TS through middle. AE.
E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Anterior aortic tissue at renal vessels&amp;quot;, consists of a strip of fibrous tissue, 15 x 5 x 2mm.   AE 1 block.   (TO:AP/ta 16/3/71)
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A. Fibrosis bland cartilage and epithelium. If previous testicular tumour is a germ cell tumour may represent treatment effect with mature teratoma. Discussed with the surgical reg. Previous orchidectomy performed in New Zealand 15yrs ago.
Result phoned to Surgical registrar by Dr J Stencel and Dr J Sacks at 12:15 on 12/1/21.


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr J Ernspiker):
A. Paraffin embedded sections show fibrocollagenous tissue with patchy chronic inflammation and fat necrosis containing scattered islands of mature cartilage. A simple mucin lined ductule is also seen. In the clinical context of previous testicular tumour this is favoured to represent a focus of residual mature teratoma with treatment effect/fibrosis. There is no evidence of malignant germ cell tumour or sarcoma.

B. Sections show aorta with surrounding peri-aortic tissue. There is extensive involvement of the fibrotic periaortic soft tissue by an infiltrative malignant sarcomatoid tumour. In the blocks submitted, the overall estimated maximum tumour dimension is 22mm (however, tumour is present at the margin and total tumour extent cannot be determined). The tumour is composed of malignant spindled to epithelioid cells arranged in dense cellular infiltrative sheets which dissect through periaortic fibrocollagen. In areas, the tumour cells appear to form malignant, anastomosing vascular channels lined by malignant hobnailed endothelial cells. The vasoformative tumour abuts and infiltrates into the adventitia and outer media of the aorta. Mitoses are readily identified and there are scattered foci of tumour necrosis. The tumour shows extensive crush type artefact and multifocal perineural involvement. The tumour extends broadly to the edges of the excision.

Five lymph nodes are identified, one of which shows direct infiltration by tumour (1/5).

Immunohistochemistry demonstrates positivity for vascular markers ERG, CD31 and CD34, as well as, BCL-2 (patchy), synaptophysin (weak),  Additional stains for inhibin, myogenin, LCA, WT1 (cytoplasm staining only), PLAP, AFP, desmin, tdt, pancytokeratin, CD56, SMA, TLE-1, MIC-2, CAM5.2, SOX-10 and OCT-34 are negative. INI-1 shows preserved (normal) nuclear staining.

In addition, within the surrounding fibrocollagenous and adipose tissue, there are occasional foci of cartilage on a background of broad nodules and sheets of dense organised fibrosis with  superimposed dystrophic calcification, fat necrosis and inflammation. Several entrapped medium to large nerves and ganglia are also seen. These background changes are suggestive of focal residual mature teratoma on a background of previous treatment related effect.

C. Section show fibrocollagenous and adipose tissue showing fibrosis with superimposed patchy chronic inflammation and fat necrosis. No cartilage is seen. There is no evidence of malignancy.

D. Sections show fibrocollagenous and adipose tissue showing fibrosis with superimposed patchy chronic inflammation and fat necrosis. A 1.1mm focus of adrenal cortical parenchyma, as well as, seven reactive appearing lymph nodes (0/7). No cartilage is seen. There is no evidence of malignancy.

E. Section show fibrocollagenous and adipose tissue showing fibrosis with superimposed patchy chronic inflammation and fat necrosis. A single reactive lymph node is seen. No cartilage is identified. There is no evidence of malignancy.


COMMENT:
The presence of islands of residual mature cartilage associated with organising fibrosis, inflammation, dystrophic calcification and fat necrosis in specimens A and B (para caval and peri aortic masses), is highly suggestive of residual mature teratoma on a background of treatment associated change. No evidence of malignant germ cell elements are seen.

As reported in the previous biopsy by Professor Jaussen, there is an associated peri-aortic high grade malignant sarcoma, which may represent: (a) malignant transformation arising within the previously treated para-aortic tumour; (b) or, a de novo sarcoma. In these specimens, the high grade sarcoma demonstrates malignant vasoformative morphology, as well as, strong diffuse staining with endothelial markers, consistent with a high grade angiosarcoma.
Sarcoma is present at margins.


DIAGNOSIS:
A. Para-caval mass: Favour residual mature teratoma with treatment effects. No evidence of malignant germ cell tumour, sarcoma or malignancy.

B. Peri-aortic tumour:
- Malignant vasoformative tumour, consistent with high grade angiosarcoma, present at margins.
- One of five lymph nodes shows direct invasion by angiosarcoma.
- Background nodular organised fibrosis and dystrophic calcification ?treatment related change.

C. Left retrocaval: Fibrosis and patchy mild non-specific chronic inflammation.

D. Right superior renal mass: 1.1mm focus of adrenal cortex on a background of multiple ganglia, fibrosis and inflammation. Seven reactive lymph nodes are present.

E. Anterior aortic tissue at renal vessels: Fibrosis and patchy mild non-specific chronic inflammation (0/1).
