SPR no: 02A020841R
MRN no: 0200208
Site_name: KUNUNOPPIN HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportSUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (9.11.66):

CLINICAL:
Well differentiated adenocarcinoma on liver biopsy, treated with 6 cycles FOLFOX ?bowel primary (normal colonoscopy), ?ovarian primary (ovarian mass).


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left tube and ovary + uterus and cervix&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, left tube and ovary and weighing 160g in total.  The uterus measures 80 x 70 x 40mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 40 x 30mm and has unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 1mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium 18mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium has four fibroids measuring from 6mm to 30mm in maximum extent.  The left fallopian tube measures 65mm in length with an outer diameter of 7mm and is unremarkable.  The ovary measures 40mm x 45 x 15mm.  The cut surface of the ovary shows small cysts filled with clear and haemorrhagic fluid.
Blocks: 1 to 5 - full LS anterior body and cervix; 6 to 9 - LS of fibroid (7 to 9 - RS of the larger fibroid); 10 to 14 - full LS posterior body and cervix; 15 and 16 - RS of fibroids; 17 and 18 - RS of fallopian tube; 19 to 27 - all of the ovary

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a fallopian tube plus adherent mass.  The fallopian tube measures 40mm in length with an outer diameter of 7mm.  The attached mass measures 160mm x 120 x 70mm.  The serosal surface is smooth and has a nodular appearance.  The cut surface of the mass shows cystic and solid areas.  The solid component is yellowish and haemorrhagic, and some areas appear necrotic.  The cystic components are filled with clear yellowish fluid.
Blocks: 1 and 2 - fallopian tube; 3 to 19 - RS of the mass.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of fatty tissue measuring 130 x 120 x 30mm.  The cut surface shows an indurated area measuring 15 x 10mm.  The rest of the tissue is uniformly fatty.
Blocks: 1 and 2 - indurated/firm area; 3 - RS of omentum.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Appendix&amp;quot;, consists of an appendix measuring 70mm in  length with an outer diameter of 7mm.  The mesoappendix measures up to 15mm diameter.  The serosal surface is glistening, with congested vessels.  The cut surface shows a patent lumen.
Blocks: 1 - two LS of base; 2 - RS of mid appendix; 3 - two LS tip. (TO: LM;LM/vo 3.10.66)



MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr A Rothermich):
A.  Sections of the cervix are unremarkable.  Sections of the endometrium show that this is thin and inactive.  There is adenomyosis in the myometrium and leiomyomas are also confirmed in the myometrium.  The myometrium is otherwise unremarkable.  Sections of the fallopian tube are unremarkable.  Sections of the ovary show small simple cysts and also a cystic corpus luteum.  There is metastatic carcinoma present very focally on the serosal surface of the ovary.  The ovary is otherwise unremarkable.

B.  Sections of the ovary show a moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma.  There is some treatment effect with between 10 and 50% of the tumour showing necrosis or replacement by fibrous and fibroblastic tissue.  No tumour is seen on the serosal surface of the ovary.  No endometriosis is identified.

Immunostains:
Cytokeratin 7:   Negative.
Cytokeratin 20:   Some patchy positive staining.
CDX2:   Positive (strong, diffuse).
WT1:   Negative.
PAX 8:   Negative.
Oestrogen receptor:   Focal weak positive staining.
Progesterone receptor:   Negative.

The immunophenotype is more in keeping with a metastatic adenocarcinoma from colorectum than a primary mucinous carcinoma of ovary.  However, rare primary mucinous carcinomas of ovary, of intestinal type, have been described with the above immunophenotype (CK7- / CK20 patchy+ /CDX2+).  Many primary mucinous carcinomas of ovary are both WT1 and PAX 8 negative.
If a metastasis from colorectum has been excluded clinically then it seems most likely that this is a primary ovarian carcinoma.  A metastasis from upper GI tract or pancreas should also be excluded but is unlikely.
Sections of the fallopian tube are unremarkable.

C.  Sections show fat . Within the fat there is some fibrosis and patchy chronic inflammation.  Suture material from previous surgery is also noted focally.  No tumour is seen.

D.  Sections show appendix.  There is no significant abnormality.  No tumour is seen.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, left tube and ovary:
1.  Focal metastatic adenocarcinoma on serosa of ovary.
2.  Adenomyosis and uterine leiomyomas.
B.  Right ovary and fallopian tube:  Moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma in ovary, showing mild treatment effect, see text.
C.  Omentum:  Focal fibrosis and chronic inflammation, no tumour.
D.  Appendix:  No abnormality seen.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (9.11.66):
B.  Immunostains for mismatch repair enzymes have been performed as requested.

MLH1:   Preserved nuclear staining.
PMS2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6:   Preserved nuclear staining.

Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI).
