SPR no: 00E651716P
MRN no: 0016517
Site_name: BOGGABRI MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Right hemicolectomy, caecal tumour, iron deficiency anaemia.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right hemicolectomy&amp;quot;, consists of a specimen of distal terminal ileum (45mm long), caecum and ascending colon (150mm long), peri-ileal and peri-colonic fatty tissue (variable in size and up to 60mm across).  The vermiform appendix is not identified.  Within the distal limits of caecum and extending into the ascending colon there is a solid tumour 55 x 42mm in surface dimensions.  The tumour is centered on the left lateral wall.  The caecum is peritonealised.  The tumour is 60mm from proximal and 95mm from distal margins.  The tumour has a maximum thickness of 10mm.  The tumour appears to be penetrating the muscularis propria.  The serosa does not appear to be involved.  There is an apparent stump of a ?appendicectomy 8mm long.
Blocks: 1 - shave proximal margin; 2 - shave distal margin; 3 - TS tumour and serosa; 4 &amp;amp; 5 - paired sections TS of tumour (block 4 - reserve block; 5 - MSI stains); 6 to 9 - TS tumour; 10 - section of ?appendiceal stump; 11 - apical lymph node bisected; 12 - lymph nodes as seen; 13 - one bisected lymph node; 14 - lymph nodes as seen; 15 - one bisected lymph node; 16 - one bisected lymph node.  (TO: HM; HM/ta 27/9/66)


MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr A Pitcairn)
Sections of the colonic tumour show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. A synoptic report for colon carcinoma follows:

SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR COLORECTAL CARCINOMA
Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour: Caecum/ascending colon.
Maximum tumour diameter: 55mm.
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 60mm (proximal margin).
Tumour perforation: No.
Microscopic Description
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS

Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate

Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved

Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Thirteen.
Number of lymph nodes involved: None (0/13).

pN0	No regional LN metastasis

Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent

Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Nil significant.

Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour

Response to neoadjuvant therapy
Not applicable.

Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary &amp;#8211; TNM 7th Edition  pT3N0MxR0


DIAGNOSIS:
Right hemicolectomy:
- 55mm moderately differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma, clear of margins.
- Low risk of microsatellite instability.
