SPR no: 07G2240607
MRN no: 07222406
Site_name: BORDERTOWN MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report07G22406 (07G2240607) CUNAS, FRASER SARGE

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Low grade appendix tumour.  Peritonectomy.
Peritoneum/omentum, spleen and tail of pancreas, rectosigmoid, right colon, gallbladder, distal part of the stomach.

MACROSCOPIC:
OMENTUM, COLON, SMALL BOWEL, RECTUM, UTERUS, SPLEEN AND PERITONEAL DISEASE. (One specimen received in two buckets).
Specimen consists of gallbladder, stomach, omentum,spleen with attached pancreas,a short segment of small bowel, a segment of large bowel (?extended right hemi colectomy), a separate segment of large bowel attached to uterus (?rectum) and multiple pieces of fibrous tissue consistent with peritoneum, all diffusely involved by a mucinous deposit of tumour.  Also within the specimen container, are mucinous pieces of tumour, altogether 240x240x110mm.

Spleen:  Spleen with attached omentum, attached piece of ?skeletal muscle ?diaphragm and pancreas.  The spleen weighs 403g and it measures 100x80x60mm.  The splenic capsule is diffusely involved by a mucinous deposit of tumour and it infiltrates into the splenic parenchyma obliterating the capsule.  Also noted is pancreas attached to the spleen. It measures 60x25x20mm. It abuts the tumor but does not appear involved.  The attached omentum is 300x180x50mm.  On sectioning, the omentum is caked by mucinous deposits of tumour completely obliterating the normal architecture.

(1&amp;amp;2 spleen with tumour on capsule and infiltrating into splenic parenchyma; 3&amp;amp;4 spleen pancreas and mucinous tumour deposits; 5 spleen and ?diaphragm; 6-8 tumour in relation to omentum [7 is tumour block];

Segment of small and large bowel with attached omentum (? extended right hemicolectomy):
It measures 490mm in length and ranges in diameter from 20-45mm.  The attached omentum is 190x180x25mm.  The presumed terminal ileum by itself is 180mm.  The serosal surface is completely covered by a mucinous deposit of tumour completing obliterating the serosa.  The mucosa shows normal mucosal folds with no grossly apparent lesion.  An appendix if present cannot be easily identified due to the nature of the specimen.  Presumed proximal margin is inked blue and presumed distal margin green.  Attached to the wall of the terminal ileum is a mucinous mass and on sectioning this area there is possible lumen ?appendix.

9 margins; 10 serosal deposits of tumour on terminal ileum; 11-17 TS of mucinous mass attached to wall of terminal ileum [?appendix] embedded from presumed tip to base; 18 tumour in relation to large bowel mucosa;

Gallbladder:  It measures 55mm in length with maximum diameter of 20mm.  It is covered by a mucinous tumour deposit.  On sectioning, the wall is up to 10mm thick.  The lumen is filled with bile.  No stones are identified.  The mucosa is granular green in appearance.

19 cystic duct; 20 neck of gallbladder; 21 body; 22 fundus;

?partial gastrectomy:   It measures 55mm lesser curve by 110mm greater curve, with a maximum diameter of 50mm.  One margin is inked blue, the other green.  The serosal surface is roughened and partially covered by mucinous deposits of tumour. The mucosa shows normal rugal folds.

23 margins; 24 roughened serosa with mucinous tumour deposits;

Short segment of small bowel:  It measures 50mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm.  The serosal surface is covered by a mucinous tumour deposit.  One margin inked blue, the other green.  On opening, the mucosa shows normal mucosal folds.

25 margins including serosal deposits of tumour;

Uterus and segment of large bowel received en bloc:   The uterus measures 90mm superior to inferior, 10mm anterior endomyometrium.  The posterior endomyometrium is expanded and covered by mucinous deposits of tumour and measures up to 45mm wide.  The endometrium is less than 1mm thick.  The ectocervix is 20x20mm with a rounded os 2mm.  Anterior inked blue, posterior black.  The ectocervix is cream-coloured and unremarkable.  The serosa is covered by a mucinous tumour deposit and posteriorly there is a cystic area filled with mucin.  The ovaries and fallopian tubes if present, are not easily identified.  The segment of attached large bowel forms a complex mass which is covered by mucinous deposits of tumour diffusely on the serosal surface.  It measures 370mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm.  The presumed proximal margin is inked blue, the presumed distal resection margin is inked black.  The mucosa shows normal mucosal folds. There is no gross mucosal lesion is identified.

26 anterior cervix; 27 posterior cervix including adjacent cystic mass; 28 anterior endomyometrium; 29 posterior endomyometrium including adjacent cystic mass; 30 fundus showing fundal cystic mass; 31 further section of cystic mass adjacent to posterior endomyometrium; 32 further section of fundal cystic mass; 33 margins of attached large bowel [rectum]; 34 wall of large bowel showing mucinous deposit of tumour;

Multiple pieces of fibrotic tissue ?peritoneum:  Altogether 320x170x40mm.  It is diffusely covered by mucinous tumour deposits.

35-37 sections of ?peritoneum).  RS (M-37/MC/nh)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. A. Donnellon)
The spleen, pancreas and probable segment of diaphragm are lined by extensive pools of mostly acellular mucin. Some of the pools are lined by mucinous epithelium which shows mostly mild and some moderate nuclear atypia. There are no high-grade areas, no invasive carcinoma morphology and only an isolated signet ring cell associated with an occasional nest of benign mucinous epithelium free floating within the mucin pools. The mucin extends into the splenic parenchyma. The uninvolved spleen shows unremarkable red and white pulp. The uninvolved pancreas is unremarkable.
The omentum is similarly extensively involved by pools of mucin, some of which are lined by mucinous epithelium showing mild to moderate nuclear atypia. A few pools also show free floating nests of benign mucinous epithelium. There are no high-grade areas and no signet ring cells.
Within the right hemicolectomy, the terminal ileum and large bowel resection margins show unremarkable mucosa with small amounts of mucin attached to the serosa. The serosal surface of the terminal ileum and large bowel segments show extensive mostly acellular pools of mucin, some of which are lined by benign mucinous epithelium and some containing free floating nests of mucinous epithelium with mild atypia. No signet ring cells or high-grade areas are seen. The appendix is not identified.
Similar mucin lakes and mucinous epithelium involve the gallbladder wall. The cystic duct margin is extensively involved as is the wall of the gallbladder.   There are also features of chronic cholecystitis.
The stomach resection margins show antral and body-type mucosa. The serosa shows fibrous adhesions, fibrin and occasional small areas of acellular mucin. The mucosa shows mild chronic gastritis.
The separate segment of small bowel shows normal mucosal folds and serosal deposits of mucin pools, some of which are lined by low-grade mucinous epithelium. There are no signet ring cells.
The ectocervix is inflamed. The endocervix shows small Nabothian cysts and microglandular hyperplasia. The posterior cervix shows an adjacent cystic cavity lined by low-grade mucinous epithelium. The endometrium is inactive. The myometrium is largely unremarkable and the uterine serosa is lined by low-grade mucinous epithelium showing papillary morphology. Similar epithelium is present lining mucin cysts present on the fundus of the uterus.
The mucosa of the attached large bowel segment is unremarkable. The serosa of the large bowel segment shows acellular mucin pools. Occasional strips of low-grade mucinous epithelium are present.
The liver tissue and peritoneal fragment are involved by extensive pools of mucin lined by low-grade mucinous epithelium. There are no high-grade areas and no signet ring cells.

DIAGNOSIS:
OMENTUM, COLON, SMALL BOWEL, RECTUM, UTERUS, SPLEEN AND PERITONEAL DISEASE:
- LOW-GRADE MUCINOUS CARCINOMA PERITONEI (DISSEMINATED PERITONEAL ADENOMUCINOSIS)
- INVOLVES THE OMENTUM, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY, RECTOSIGMOID, SMALL BOWEL, UTERUS AND CERVIX, SPLEEN AND PANCREAS
- NO HIGH-GRADE AREAS AND NO SIGNET RING CELLS
