DateOfBirth
200512300000


SiteName
TAMWORTH RURAL REFERRAL HOSPITAL


FirstName
SMOKEY


SPRID
80K358714P


MRN
803358


SpecimenType
Fresh Tissue


Gender
F


MiddleName



FacilityID
MR


LabNumber
OMNI-Lab_11


SPRText



CLINICAL:
66 yo female pancreatic lesions ? ovarian origin ? pancreatic primary.
R ovarian lesion and pancreatic biopsy.
Additional:  the right ovarian lesion was removed off the right ovary according to Dr Ike (anaesthetist).
L ovary and tube.  Omentum, peritoneal bx, uterus, right ovary.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Pancreatic biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of four cores, received fresh, measuring 9mm, 10mm 15mm and 20mm.  AE FS 2 blocks.  Blocks: A1 - frozen section A1; A2 - frozen section A2.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Marked acinar atrophy and fibrosis; some atypical ductal epithelium.  Insufficient for a diagnosis of carcinoma on FS material.
Result to Dr Langbehn by Dr W Losey (shown to MY, NL) at 10:55am on 18/02/2017

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Pancreatic biopsy frozen section&amp;quot;, consists of two pieces of grey / red tissue, 15 x 10 x 8mm and 10 x 7 x 8mm, each with a homogenous grey cut surface.  Frozen section B1 larger piece, frozen section B2 smaller piece.
Blocks:  B1 - frozen section B1; B2 - frozen section B2. AE.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma consistent with pancreatic primary.  PNI / intraneural invasion present.
Result to Dr Delrossi / Celedon by Dr WHector (shown to MY / NL) at 12:10pm on 18/02/2017

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right ovarian lesion&amp;quot;, consists of one piece of friable grey tissue, 15 x 8 x 7mm.  AE for FS. Block C1 - frozen section C1.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Favour serous borderline tumour with some micropapillary features.
Result to Dr Parra / Nettles by Dr W Wike (shown to MY / NL) at 12:10pm on 18/02/2017

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left ovary and tube&amp;quot;, consists of an ovary, 160 x 140 x 70mm, with a smooth serosal surface, apart from two surface defects, 10 x 10mm and 20 x 10mm, through which is visible cystic tumour.  The cut surface shows a pale grey / tan solid (50%) and cystic (50%) neoplasm.  The cysts contain thin brown fluid.  Haemorrhagic foci are present within the cystic areas.  The specimen includes a stretched fallopian tube, 70mm in length and 7mm in diameter.  Three representative sections of ovary for frozen section.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section D1; 2 - frozen section D2; 3 - frozen section D3; 4 - frozen section D4; D 5 &amp;amp; 6 - two LS of larger surface defect; D7 &amp;amp; D8 - two LS of smaller surface defect; D9 to D13 - tumour without serosal surface; D14 to D18 - tumour with serosal surface; D19 to D20 - 11 serially embedded transverse sections of fallopian tube from isthmus to infundibulum; D21 &amp;amp; D22 - three longitudinal sections of fimbrial end.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma similar to tumour in pancreas
Result to Dr Kessell by Dr WBenjamin at 12:50pm on 18/02/2017

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, weighing 96g in total.  The uterus measures 78 x 50 x 43mm and has a smooth serosal surface with two small yellow nodules on the posterior aspect, 8 x 7mm (adjacent to left cornu) and 6 x 5mm (superior to posterior peritoneal reflection). On the anterior serosal surface are four grey nodules, 1 to 3mm in extent.  The ectocervix measures 35 x 25mm and appears unremarkable.  On sectioning, the endometrium is 2 to 4mm in maximum thickness (greatest in the cervical canal) and the myometrium is up to 31mm; containing two fibroids, 6mm and 30mm in maximum diameter.
Blocks:  E1 to E6 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix; E7 to E9 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix; E10 - right cornu; E11 - left cornu; E12 - yellow nodule near peritoneal reflection; E13 - yellow nodule near left cornu (bisected); E14 - anterior serosal nodules (two representative sections).

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a 41 x 24 x 13mm pale yellow ovary with a 15 x 7mm puckered region of serosa and three simple cysts, all 5mm in maximum extent, on an otherwise smooth serosal surface.  The attached fallopian tube is 58mm in length x 5mm in diameter and appears unremarkable with the exception of a 7mm parafimbrial cyst.  A 3 x 3mm yellow nodule is noted on the serosal surface of the soft tissue between the ovary and fallopian tube.  The ovary is sectioned transversely into 9 slices and shows a relatively well circumscribed 19 x 11 x approximately 20mm pale yellow lesion underlying the puckered serosal region (slices 4 to 8).  The fallopian tube is sectioned transversely into 11 slices and the fimbrial end bisected longitudinally.
Blocks:  F1 to F4 - right fallopian tube serially embedded from isthmus to fimbria; F5 - ovary, slice three with cyst; F6 &amp;amp; F7 - ovary with yellow lesion and serosal puckering (F7 also with separate serosal nodule), slices 5 and 6. F8-F11 additional blocks ovary.

G.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of 265 x 60 x 10mm of omental fat. Numerous (&amp;gt;15) firm nodules, 2 to 7mm in extent, are scattered throughout the omentum.  Some have a spiculated pale cream cut surface (?fibrosis or tumour).
Blocks:  G1 - two nodules; G2 - five nodules; G3 - one nodule, bisected; G4 - three nodules; G5 - three nodules; G6 &amp;amp; G7 - one nodule bisected per block.

H.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Peritoneal nodule&amp;quot;, consists of four irregular fibrofatty tissues, 7 to 20mm in extent and 25 x 15 x 7mm in aggregate.  The two largest pieces are surfaced by presumed pale grey serosa. The largest is trisected and shows an 8 x 2mm firm cream to yellow region extending from the peritoneal surface.  The second piece of presumed serosa also shows an 8 x 2mm thickened area (bisected).
Blocks:  H1 - larger piece bisected; H2 - smaller three pieces (one bisected). AE.

I.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right sidewall&amp;quot;, consists of an 11 x 7 x 3mm irregular grey tissue. Bisected, AE 1 block.

J. Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Nodule bladder peritoneum&amp;quot;, consists of an 8 x 6 x 4mm fibrofatty tissue, surfaced on one side by a possible pale grey serosa.  Bisected, AE 1 block.  (TO: KM; KM/eh 22/4/2067)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr W Capitano):
A.  Paraffin sections of the specimen examined at the time of intraoperative frozen section consultation show core biopsies of pancreatic tissue.  There is marked acinar atrophy with replacement dense hyaline type fibrosis. There is background retention of a lobular architecture however interspersed amongst the dense fibrous tissue are occasional atypical tubular glands. The glands show  mild to focally moderate nuclear pleomorphism which is difficult to assess in a frozen section sample.  Features often associated with carcinoma in core biopsy samples such as nuclear size variation of 3:1, conspicuous macronucleoli, disrupted glands, perineural invasion, necrosis in lumina are not definitively present, however the glands are atypical and the context of the appearances seen in specimen B likely represent well differentiated adenocarcinoma.

B.  Paraffin sections of the specimen examined at the time of intraoperative frozen section consultation show a wedge of pancreatic tissue which is partially infiltrated by a well differentiated invasive adenocarcinoma. The carcinoma shows an infiltrative pattern amongst background pancreatic parenchyma which shows variable acinar atrophy.  The glands are tubular with focal secondary lumina and are lined by cells with minimal or mild nuclear pleomorphism and a small to moderate amount eosinophilic cytoplasm.  No morphological evidence of intestinal differentiation such as goblet cells or Paneth cells are seen.  There is associated fibromyxoid desmoplastic stroma and foci of perineural and intraneural invasion are also seen.  No associated extracellular mucin is present.  The sample includes uninvolved pancreatic parenchyma and the ducts here do not show evidence of high grade pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN).  No lymph nodes are identified.  No definite lymphovascular invasion is seen.

Immunohistochemistry:
In the presence of positive and adequate controls the tumour cells stain as follows:
Positive:  CK7 (&amp;gt;50%), CK20 (&amp;gt;50%), CK19 and CDX2
Negative: ER, PR, WT1 and PAX8.

C.  Paraffin sections of the specimen examined at the time of intraoperative frozen section consultation show oedematous fibrovascular cores surfaced by variably ciliated Mullerian type epithelium showing hierarchical branching.  Although some of the papillae appear unsupported they are not four times as high as they are wide.  Nuclear atypia is mild to moderate.  No features of microinvasion are seen. The features are those of a low grade serous borderline tumour.

D.  Sections of ovary show invasive adenocarcinoma.  Differentiation varies with predominantly well to moderate differentiation and a minor poorly differentiated component.  The tumour is composed of tubular and cribriform glandular structures within a moderately cellular oedematous desmoplastic stroma.  In addition to small tubular and cribriform structures the tumour also contains a component of more cystically dilated glands a proportion of which are lined by very bland or mildly atypical simple or stratified columnar mucinous epithelium. Expansile nodular or intracystic papillary growth is not seen.  Some of the cystically dilated areas show higher grade nuclear atypia. Whilst the tumour mainly shows destructive stromal invasion with associated desmoplasia, some area including the cysts are associated with ovarian stroma in a pattern resembling an ovarian mucinous borderline neoplasm  with and without intracystic carcinoma .  The poorly differentiated component comprises minor foci (less than 5%) in which there is either single cell infiltration or signet ring-like differentiation (eg D8, D16, D18).  No associated extracellular mucin deposition to indicate pseudomyxoma ovarii is seen.  No microscopic surface mucin, or surface deposits are seen. Two small areas of surface disruption are noted.    Occasional glands contain necrotic luminal debris which are predominantly of inflammatory cells with some associated necrotic epithelial cells. Invasive adenocarcinoma involves the fallopian tube with invasion of the wall from the serosal surface (D18, D20) reaching the mucosa at the fimbrial end (D21) .  There is focal endometriosis close to the fallopian tube (D21). The right fallopian tube is entirely embedded and examined and no serous tubular carcinoma in-situ is seen.  No benign Brenner component is seen. The ovarian hilum is not identified.

Immunohistochemistry:
In the presence of positive and adequate controls the tumour cells stain as follows:
Positive:  CK7 (&amp;gt;50%), CK20 (&amp;gt;50%), CK19 and CDX2
Negative: ER, PR, WT1 and PAX8.


E.  Sections of uterus show metastatic adenocarcinoma seenpredominantly surface deposits on the anterior surface (E4).  Adenocarcinoma is also present in the vicinity of the right cornua (E10) and close to the posterior peritoneal reflection (E12).  The carcinoma shows similar morphology to the pancreatic and ovarian disease.   There are also foci of endosalpingiosis (eg E5, E7) as well as endometriosis (E13).  The uterus shows a couple of fibroids (E14, E1) and is otherwise unremarkable. The endometrium is predominantly basal but appears inactive.  The ectocervix and and endocervix are uninvolved and unremarkable.

F.  The right ovary is extensively sampled and the attached fallopian tube including fimbrial end entirely embedded and examined.  Sections of ovary confirm a surface serous low grade borderline tumour associated with psammomatous calcifications as well as multiple deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma. The adenocarcinoma shows similar features to that seen in the left ovary and pancreas.  The deposits are seen on the surface of the ovary and also as a single expansile nodule. The expansile nodule shows areas in which the malignant glands are present with  ovarian stroma as well as areas with stromal  desmoplasia. The surface deposits which show similar cytomorphology are present amongst desmoplastic stroma.  The glands show a tubular and cribriform morphology with some poorly differentiated areas with single cell growth (eg F6).  No pseudomyxoma ovarii is seen.  Metastatic moderate to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma is also seen within the right ovarian hilum (F11).  Definite lymphovascular invasion is not identified.  Foci of endometriosis are also seen (F11).The right fallopian tube is entirely embedded and examined and is unremarkable and uninvolved.

Immunohistochemistry:
In the presence of positive and adequate controls the adenocarcinoma stains as follows:
Positive:  CK7 (&amp;gt;50%), CK20 (&amp;gt;50%), CK19 and CDX2
Negative: ER, PR, WT1 and PAX8.

In contrast to the adenocarcinoma the serous borderline tumour shows typical expression for PAX8, WT1, CK7, ER and PR. CK19 is also positive while CK20 and CDX2 are negative.

G.  Sections of omentum show multiple foci of metastatic adenocarcinoma with similar morphology to that seen within the ovaries and pancreas. The carcinoma is composed of small tubular and cribriform glands within a desmoplastic stroma and is seen on the serosal surface associated with mesothelial cell reaction.  Scattered foci of psammomatous calcification are seen both in the vicinity of tumour and separately.  Foci of endosalpingiosis are also seen (G5 and G6). One lymph node shows no evidence of malignancy (0/1).

H.   Sections of peritoneal lined adipose tissue show several deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma. The carcinoma shows similar morphology to that seen within the pancreas and ovaries. The carcinoma is composed of surface deposits within desmoplastic stroma. The carcinoma appears well to moderately differentiated with well formed tubular or cribriform glands.  One small lymph node shows no evidence of malignancy (0/1).

I &amp;amp; J.  Sections of fibroadipose tissue show a deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma with similar features to that seen in the other sites.  The carcinoma is well to moderately differentiated.


COMMENT:
The adenocarcinoma present with the right ovary, uterus, omentum, peritoneal nodule , right side wall and bladder peritoneal nodule is consistent with metastatic disease with predemoniantly surface deposits.  The morphology  of the adenocarcinoma in the pancreas, in the limited sample, is well differentiated but shows  morphogical features, including perineural invasion, dense hyaline stroma and small tubular glands compatible with pancreatic primary. High grade pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia is not seen, in the limited sample. The right ovary shows features of (mucinous) adenocarcinoma with varying differentiation (predominantly well to moderate with minor poorly differentiated areas). Areas in the ovarian tumour resemble the pancreatic tumour albeit with some cystic areas and minor poorly differentiated areas in the  more representative ovarian sample.  The presence of bilateral ovarian involvement , extensive intraabdominal disease, destructive stromal reaction in the left ovary and presence of single cells are features that would favour metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma to the ovaries in this case. However as the left ovary is very large, has a smooth external surface, lacks expansile nodular growth or surface deposits and shows some areas with bland mucinous epithelium resembling an ovarian borderline mucinous neoplasm, the possibility of synchronous pancreatic and ovarian primaries cannot entirely be excluded.  The presence in the left ovary  of a minor component of relatively bland mucinous tumour is not a helpful discriminator,  as metastatic adenocarcinoma from the pancreas to ovary is a great morphologic mimic of primary ovarian mucinous neoplasm including benign and borderline mucinous neoplasms.   The immunoprofile or the tumour in the pancreas and right and left ovaries (CK7, CK20, CK19 and CDX2 expression) is identical and consistent with intestinal type differentiation.  In the absence of PAX8 expression ( seen in only about 30% of primary ovarian mucinous adenocarcinomas but not in pancreatic primaries)  the immunoprofile is not helpful in determining origin of the disease.  This expression profile could also be seen in other upper gastrointestinal tract primaries.  The immunoprofile, with diffuse CK7 expression argues against appendiceal origin, although examination of the appendix (not received) would be beneficial for completeness.   Selected slides of this case have been seen in consultation with Dr W Vaneekelen who favours a pancreatic primary with metastatic intraabdominal disease including to the ovaries. Dr Erasmo comments that the morphology in the larger left ovary, with extensive stromal desmoplasia, is more typical of metastatic disease and that intraabdominal metastatic disease from the ovary, including to the pancreas would be exceedingly rare.  Correlation with the disease biology and preoperative imaging features of the pancreatic tumour (eg vascular and nodal involvement) is essential in this case.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Pancreatic core biopsy (frozen section):
-    Atypical mucinous epithelium which in this context is consistent with adenocarcinoma.

B.  Pancreatic biopsy (frozen section):
-    Adenocarcinoma with perineural invasion (see comment).

C.  Right ovarian lesion (frozen section):
-    Low grade serous borderline tumour.

D.  Left ovary and fallopian tube (including frozen section):
-    Adenocarcinoma within ovary and fallopian tube (see comment).

E.  Uterus:
-    Metastatic adenocarcinoma.
-    Endosalpingiosis and endometriosis.
-    Fibroids.

F.  Right ovary and fallopian tube:
-    Metastatic adenocarcinoma in ovary.
-    Ovarian low grade serous borderline tumour.
-    Uninvolved fallopian tube

G.  Omentum:
-    Metastatic adenocarcinoma.
-    Endosalpingiosis.

H.  Peritoneal nodule:
-     Metastatic adenocarcinoma.

I.   Right side wall:
-    Metastatic adenocarcinoma.

J.   Nodule peritoneum:
-     Metastatic adenocarcinoma.

The findings were discussed with Drs W Jecmenek &amp;amp; W Lionetti and  Profs. W Provazek and W Wrye.





SpecimenReceivedDate
2512-10-20 00:00:00


LastName
Kohus
