SPR no: 53J196516D
MRN no: 5331965
Site_name: NORTH EASTERN SOLDIERS MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report53J19651 (53J196516D) PARTYKA, PATRICE OLEN

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Mesenteric lymph node - peritonectomy. ?appendix primary, frozen section.  Small bowel/large bowel, gallbladder, uterus, peritoneum sigmoid colon, porto-caval node, rectum.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;MESENTERIC LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;.  A lymph node 9x4x4mm, bisected.
Frozen section: 2xTS (AE)

Frozen section report:  &amp;quot;Benign lymph node&amp;quot;.  Result to theatre 10 by LV.

AE (M-1/MC 2/3/2067 nh)

B.  &amp;quot;SMALL BOWEL, LARGE BOWEL, RECTUM, UTERUS, GALLBLADDER, DIAPHRAGM STRIP, PERITONEUM, SIGMOID&amp;quot;.  Consists of omentum, gallbladder, a segment of skin ?umbilicus, two segments of small bowel, right hemicolectomy, uterus with attached cervix including attached segment of large bowel ?rectum and multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue. No appendix is present.

Omentum measures 240x60x15mm.  There is one firm area noted on palpation.  No obvious tumour nodules are identified.  Representative sections of omentum blocks 1 and 2.

Gallbladder measures 70mm in length x 35mm maximum diameter.  The serosa is roughened at the cystic duct.  The rest of the serosa is otherwise unremarkable.  The wall is up to 3mm thick.  Mucosa is granular green in appearance.  One stone found within the lumen measuring 6mm.

(3  cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 4  body and fundus).

The first segment of small bowel measures 120mm in length with a maximum diameter of 20mm.  Mesentery is up to 35mm wide.  The serosa appears mildly roughened.  Mucosa is unremrakable.  One margin is inked blue, the other black.  Representative sections taken and embedded in block 5.  (longitudinal of the margins and one TS through roughened area).

Short segment of bowel consistent with large bowel and measures 50mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm.  Serosa is unremarkable.  On opening, the mucosa shows normal mucosal folds.  One margin inked blue, the other black.

(6  representative sections of short segment of large bowel).

Right hemicolectomy comprises of a long segment of terminal ileum, caecum, ascending colon.  No appendix is present.  It measures 625mm in length with a proximal diameter of 20mm, distal diameter of 35mm.  Attached mesentery is up to 65mm.  The serosal surface of the small bowel shows scattered pale areas ?tumour deposit.  This is also noted within the mesentery.  The serosal surface of the large bowel is roughened with areas of adhesion.  On opening, the mucosa shows no abnormality.  Proximal margin is inked blue, distal margin black.

(7  margins; 8  pale zones on small bowel serosa; 9  pale zones on small bowel mesentery; 10  roughened serosa large bowel [ascending colon]; 11&amp;amp;12  representative lymph nodes [11 six nodes, 12  three nodes]).

Ellipse of skin consistent with umbilicus measures 25x10 and up to 15mm depth.  The skin surface is unremarkable.  On sectioning, no discrete tumour is identified.

(13  representative sections of ?umbilicus).

Uterus with attached cervix including segment of large bowel consistent with ?rectum.  The uterus anterior is inked blue, posterior black.  It measures 95mm superior to inferior, 40mm intercornual distance.  Ectocervix is 25x20 with a 2mm os.  Anterior endomyometrium is 17mm, posterior endomyometrium is 20mm.  The ectocervix is unremarkable.  The serosa is covered by scattered pale area.  This is noted on the attached peritoneal resection posteriorly and anteriorly.  On sectioning through the uterus, there are multiple pale whorled areas ?fibroids.  The attached segment of large bowel measures 180mm in length with a maximum diameter of 20mm.  Attached mesocolic fat is up to 50mm.  The serosa appears pale in some areas.  On opening, the mucosa is unremarkable.  Proximal margin is inked blue, distal margin black.

(14  anterior and posterior cervix; 15  anterior endomyometrium; 16  posterior endomyometrium; 17  fundus includes area of possible wall lesion; 18&amp;amp;19  sections of serosa showing paler zones; 20  proximal and distal margin of large bowel [rectum]; 21  roughened areas of serosa; 22  one representative node bisected).

Multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue (?peritoneum), altogether measure 150x120x30mm.  No obvious tumour deposit is identified macroscopically.  Representative sections in block 23.  RS (M-23).

C.  &amp;quot;RIGHT PELVIC SIDE WALL&amp;quot;.  Multiple piece of fibrofatty tissue in aggregate 50x40x20mm.  There is a 5mm uniloclar cyst identified and three possible lymph nodes.

(1  one piece of fatty tissue including cyst; 2  one node bisected; 3  one node trisected; 4  one node).  RS (M-4).

D.  &amp;quot;PORT-ACAVA (sic) NODE&amp;quot;.  One nodal tissue measuring 18x15x4mm.  Bisected.  AE (2-1).

E.  &amp;quot;PARACAVAL LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;.  A piece of fibrofatty tissue, measuring 40x15x7mm.  One possible lymph node identified and embedded in E1.  Remainder tissue E2.  AE (M-2/MC 2/3/2067 km).

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr P Markve)
A. No evidence of malignancy is seen in 1 lymph node.

B. Histology shows deposits of metastatic signet ring cell adenocarcinoma found throughout the omentum with infiltration of the serosa of the small bowel where there is extension through muscularis propria into submucosa, and similarly, with infiltration with the surface of the muscularis propria of the colon. No malignancy is seen in 11 local mesenteric lymph nodes. Within the uterus, there is widespread infiltration infiltration of the stroma of the cervix and the myometrium. There is widespread lymphatic vascular invasion in the myometrium with the tumour displaying a more solid/ acinar pattern of differentiation.There is also focal serosal involvement of the gall bladder and within the deep fibrous tissue deep to the skin of the umbilicus. Immunostains on the omental deposits show positivity for CK7, CK20, CDX2 with patchy retention of neuroendocrine markers suggesting that the current lesion may have originated from a prior goblet cell carcinoid of appendiceal origin.

C. Histology shows a micrometastasis in 1 of 4 lymph nodes. Additionally, there is a focal deposit of serosal infiltration by signet ring cell adenocarcinoma adjacent to a small focus of endosalpingiosis.

D. No evidence of malignancy is seen in 1 node.

E. No evidence of malignancy is seen in 2 nodes.

DIAGNOSIS:
A. MESENTERIC LYMPH NODE
- NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY IN 1 NODE.

B. SMALL BOWEL, LARGE BOWEL, RECTUM, UTERUS, GALLBLADDER, DIAPHRAGM STRIP, PERITONEUM AND SIGMOID
- WIDESPREAD INVOLVEMENT OF OMENTUM, SEROSA OF SMALL AND LARGE BOWEL, GALLBLADDER, UTERUS AND UMBILICUS BY SIGNET RING CELL ADENOCARCINOMA.

C. RIGHT PELVIC SIDE WALL
- MICROMETASTASES IN 1 OF 4 NODES.

D. PORT-ACAVAL NODE
- NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY IN ONE NODE.

E. PARACAVAL LYMPH NODE
- NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY IN 2 NODES.

2/8/2067 cy
