
 489863.CDY
Klingelhoefer, JESS
48X86301

Last edited : 28/1/2063		Page: 2

CLINICAL:
Rt breast cancer.  7mm at 3 o'clock, at areola.  Prophylactic mastectomy on left.  Short stitch superior, long lateral.  Bilateral sentinel nodes.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right breast" consists of a total mastectomy with two sutures for orientation marking short 1 superior margin and long 1 lateral margin measuring 200mm (medial to lateral) x 190mm (superior to inferior) x 40mm (superficial to deep) margin.  There is an ellipse of skin with nipple and areola complex 180 x 100mm.  The surface of the skin is unremarkable.  The superficial margin is inked blue, the deep margin inked black.   At 3 o'clock and retro-areolar  there is stellate and gritty lesion 10 x 10 x 10mm it is located 40mm from the deep margin, morethan 100mm from superior margin and more than 70mm from the inferior margin.  The rest of the parenchyma has a fibrofatty appearance.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - composite of nipple with lesion; 3 nipple,  4 & 5- composite of tumour with nipple and areola; 6 & 7 - nipple and areola composite; 8 - deep margin closest to tumour; 9 & 10 - upper outer quadrant; 11 & 12 - upper inner quadrant;  13 & 14 - upper inner quadrant; 15 - lower inner quadrant.
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Left breast" consists of a total mastectomy with two sutures for orientation marking short  superior margin and long  lateral margin measuring 200mm(medial to lateral) x 190mm (superior to inferior) x 30mm (superficial to deep) margin.  There is an ellipse of skin with nipple and areola complex 180 x 80mm.   The surface of theskin is unremarkable.  The superficial margin is inked blue, the deep margin inked black.  On sectioning the parenchyma has a fibrofatty appearance.  
Blocks: 1 - nipple and areola;2 to 4 - upper inner quadrant; 5 to 7 - upper outer quadrant; 8 & 9 - lower inner quadrant; 10 to 13 - lower outer quadrant.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Right axillary sentinel node"consists of a lymph node measuring 15mm in maximum diameter.   AE 1 block.  
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Right axillary sentinel node" consists ofa lymph node measuring 5mm in maximum diameter.   AE 1 block.  
 
E.  Specimen labelled "Right axillary sentinel node" consists of a lymph node measuring 5mm.   AE 1 block.
 
F.  Specimen labelled "Left axillary sentinel node" consists of three lymph nodes measuring 5, 5 and 10mm.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - one lymph node each.   (ZB/ta 23/1/63) 
    
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr K Rakers)
A.  The right breast tumour is an invasive ductal carcinoma, NOS, arising on a background of DCIS. A synoptic report for breast carcinoma follows:

SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR INVASIVE CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST
Invasive carcinoma:
Site: Right breast.
Type: Invasive ductal carcinoma, NOS.
The carcinoma is retroareolar and consists of infiltrative tubules, nests and trabeculae. Some of the tumour cells have an apocrine type appearance. There is patchy Pagetoid spread into adjacent ducts. 
Invasive tumour size: 15mm (microscopic). 
Grade (Modified Bloom & Richardson): 1
Tubules: 2    Nuclei: 2     Mitoses: 1     Mitotic rate:   Less than 1/10hpf.
Lymphovascular invasion: Inconspicuous. 
	    
DCIS component:  
DCIS: Present. 
Maximum extent of DCIS: DCIS is present within the tumour and in adjacent benign breast tissue over an approximate maximum extent of 17mm.
Nuclear grade: Low to intermediate. 
Architecture: Solid to cribriform. 
Necrosis: Not identified. 
Calcification: Not identified. 
Degree of DCIS in tumour: Mild.  
DCIS in adjacent tissue: Present. 
Excision Margins:  
Invasive component:Clear of margins.
In-situ component: Clear of margins. 
Receptors (Block A1): 
ER:  	POSITIVE
	90% of nuclei stained
	Predominant intensity of staining:moderate to strong.   
PR:  	NEGATIVE
	Less than 1% of nuclei stained.
HER2 (Novocastra 10A7): Negative (0)
HER SISH:  Performed at Alcoa Inc, MAREEBA HOSPITAL Hospital, see separate report.
Ki-67 index: Approximately 2% of tumour cell nuclei positive. 
Nipple: No evidence of Paget's disease. 
LCIS /ALH: Focal atypical lobular hyperplasia is present. 
Miscellaneous: The adjacent non-neoplastic breast tissue shows patchy fibrocystic change, fibroadenomatoid change and mild non-specific inflammation. 
Lymph node total:
See specimens C - F. 
B.  Sections of the left breast show benign ducts and acini. The nipple shows no significant histologic abnormality. There is no evidence of atypical ductal hyperplasia, DCIS or malignancy.
C.  Sections of the right axillary sentinel lymph node show a 0.30mm deposit of metastatic carcinoma (1/1) (H&E and IHC). There is no extranodal extension. 
D.  Sections of the right axillary sentinel lymph node show no evidence of malignancy by H&E and IHC (0/1).
E.  Sections of the right axillary sentinellymph node show no evidence of malignancy by H&E and IHC (0/1).
F.  Sections of the three left axillary sentinel lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (H&E and IHC) (0/3).
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right breast: 15mm, Grade 1, invasive ductal carcinoma arising on a background of DCIS. Margins are clear of DCIS/carcinoma. ER positive; PR and Her-2 negative. 

B.  Left breast: No evidence of atypical ductal hyperplasia, DCIS or malignancy. 

C.  Right axillary sentinellymph node: Metastatic carcinoma in one lymph node (1/1). 

D.  Right axillary sentinel lymph node: No evidence of malignancy (0/1). 

E.  Right axillary sentinel lymph node: No evidence of malignancy (0/1).

F.  Left axillary sentinel lymph node: No evidence of malignancy (0/3).

HER SISH is being performed at Micron Technology, TOWNSVILLE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL Hospital and please see separate report for result.

 

