
Episode No:  76G456811J
762456.VFD

Groleau, FABIAN 
Lab No:  76G45681
N Lenwood
QUEANBEYAN  QLD  5520
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  5/6/1993
Sex:  F
Collected: 27/08/2013 at17:15
Location:  2.PARKES 8-PLANTAGENET HOSPITAL
DR George Jake Haggett
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY

CLINICAL:
Ascending coloncancer.  Left hemicolectomy for histopath.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Left hemicolectomy", consists of a section of colon 215mm in length. 45mm from one resection margin there is a circumferential ulcerated tumour over a length of bowel 30mm.  In the serosa in the area overlying the tumour the serosa appears puckered with adherent fat. The cut surface reveals a firm cream tumour which appears to invade through the muscularis propria and focally abuts the serosal surface.  In the area of the tumour several uncomplicated diverticulum are unremarkable.  Several further diverticulum are identified in the remainder of the colon.  No othersuspicious areas are identified.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified in the mesenteric fat.  Block 1- resection margins; 2-6 - representative tumour; 7 - uncomplicated diverticulum; 8 - apical node; 9-11 - further lymph nodes; 12 - reserve block.  (TO: WC;PQ/ec 29.10.63) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr T Mcguinnes) 

Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour: Descending colon. 	
Maximum tumour diameter:30mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 45mm
Tumour perforation:  No
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate 
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
The tumour invades through the muscularis propria and extends into the mesenteric fat.  It reaches very close to the serosal surface of the bowel wall where there is some associated fibrosis and haemorrhage.  No serosal penetration is seen.  The features are insufficient for definite serosal invasion.
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Mesenteric margin: Not involved
No non-peritonealised (retroperitoneal) margin identified. 
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: 17. 	
Number of lymph nodes involved:  0.	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent.  
The tumour abuts and disrupts the wall of an intramural vein but no definite vascular invasion is seen.  (block3).  Elsewhere an orcein elastin stain shows some elastin fibres around tumour, however definite lymphovascular invasion is not seen in the corresponding H& E stained section or with CD31 immunostain.
Perineural invasion
Present.  Focal (block 4).
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Other:  Non-complicated diverticular disease.  
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		loss of nuclear staining
PMS2		loss of nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining/loss of nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining/loss of nuclear staining
Comment:
Absence (loss)of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
DIAGNOSIS:
Left hemicolectomy:
-  48mm moderately differentiated descending colon adenocarcinoma, intramural perineural invasion; no definite lymphovascular invasion; micosatellite instability phenotype (abnormal loss of MLH1/PMS2)  margins clear; seventeen (17) negative lymph nodes (0/17); stage pT3 N0 MX R0; 



 

