
Episode No:  21L694511F
2146945.EEF

Vainio, Barry Ferdinand BILLYE 
Lab No:  21L69451,21L69451
Victory Park
CASTLEMAINE  Tasmania  6924
Specimen: Fluid,Tissue
D.O.B:  15/6/2040
Sex:  F
Collected: 04/08/2014 at 10:08
Location:  ACUTECARE WARD - ROYAL TALBOT REHABILITATION CENTRE
DR PARTHENIA Marge Higginbothan
Distribution:  DR Hosteller,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (15.10.64):


CLINICAL:
Pelvic mass.  Mild asthma.  Left ovarian cystectomy 2012; mucinous borderline with invasion.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary frozen" consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube weighing 1149g.  The ovary measures 220 x 180 x 60mm.  The fallopian tube measures 55 x 15 x 10mm.  Theouter surface of the ovary is grey and smooth.  A defect is identified on the surface measuring 15mm in maximum diameter.  The outer surface of the fallopian tube and fimbrial end are unremarkable. The specimen is serially transverselysectioned and the cut surface reveals grey/brown parenchyma with extensive necrosis.  It appears that the lesion is not invading to the surface macroscopically. Two representative sections for frozen section.  
Blocks:  1- frozen section; 2- frozen section; 3 to 18 - representative section of tumour; 19 & 20 - two representative sections of the defect on the surface; 21 - representative section of fallopian tube with entire fimbrial end.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Mucinous adenocarcinoma.
Phone result to Dr G Picciuto by Dr G Kansas at 11.39am on 04.08.14. 
(NI/mm 7.10.64) 
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, right tube and ovary" consists of a fresh uterus with attached cervix and right fallopian tube and ovary weighing 113g.  The uterus measures 95 x 50 x 35mmand has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 40 x 35mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 3mm and myometrium is 21mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  The right fallopian tube measures 60mm in length and 
10mm in diameter.  The right ovary measures 40 x 30 x 25mm and the cut surface of the right ovary contains multiple cysts ranging from 3 to 10mm in maximum dimension containing clear fluid.  
Blocks:  1 to 4 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix; 5 to 8 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix; 9 - representative section of fallopian tube and fimbrial end; 10 to 13 - representative section of right ovary; 14 & 15 - representative sections of attached soft tissue to the right ovary.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Appendix" consists of an appendix with attached mesoappendix.  The appendix measures 100 x 25 x 15mm.  Theserosa is brown and congested.  Fibrinopurulent material identified on the serosal surface.  
Blocks:  1- tip of appendix; 2 - three transverse sections; 3 - base of the appendix.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Rectal adhesions" consists of multiple fragments of fibrous tissue, 70 x 35 x 10mm in aggregate.  AE 4 blocks.  
(TO: CY  GL/mm 6.10.64) 
E.  Specimen labelled "Left uterosacral" consists of brown coloured fibrous tissue measuring 15 x5 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.  
F.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a piece of fibro/fatty tissue measuring 320 x 160 x 20mm.  The specimen is serially transversely sectioned.  The cut surface shows lobulated fibrofatty tissue with an area of possible fat necrosis.  One lymph node identified measuring 10 x 5 x 5mm.  
Blocks:  1- lymph node; 2 to 6 - representative section of fat.  
(CK/mm 7.10.64) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr G Birchall/Dr G Dreiling):
A.  The sections of ovary show a moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma arising from a mucinous borderline tumour.  The invasive tumour has an expansilepattern of invasion, with confluent cystically dilated glands separated by minimal stroma and tumour with a complex glandular architecture. The glands are lined by cells with pleomorphic nuclei and coarse chromatin, as well as goblet cells. Mitoses are easy to identify.  The borderline component is composed of multiple cysts lined by atypical mucinous epithelium. Prominent areas of necrosis are seen within the tumour.  No lymphovascular invasion is identified.
The tumour cells are positive for CK7 and CK20. Minimal focal staining is seen for CDX2, in keeping with ovarian origin.
In block A18, tumour admixed with blood and fibrin is seen on the serosal surface, in keeping with focal surface serosal involvement.
The fallopian tube shows no significant abnormality.
Shown to Dr HASSAN KEZAR.
B.  The cervical epithelium shows no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.  The endometrium is proliferative, with no features of endometritis, hyperplasia or malignancy.  The myometrium shows no significant abnormality. Several cystic follicles are seen in the right ovary. Surface serosal neutrophils, histiocytes, hyperplastic mesothelial cells and fibrin are seen over the uterus, right ovary and right adnexal soft tissue. 
C.  The appendix mucosa and muscularis propria appears normal with no significant inflammation.  There is diffuse serosal inflammation associated with fibrin deposition and granulation tissue formation.  There is no evidence of malignancy. A peri-appendiceal lymph node shows no evidence of malignancy.
D.  All of the specimen has been embedded.  Thesections show fibrovascular tissue with fibrin deposition, inflammation and granulation tissue formation.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
E.  The sections show fibrovascular tissue with fibrin deposition, inflammation andgranulation tissue formation.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
F.  The omentum shows mesothelial hyperplasia as well as acute on chronic inflammation.  One lymph node negative for metastatic carcinoma is identified (0/1).  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Leftovary and fallopian tube:
-  Moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma arising from a borderline mucinous tumour
-  Focal surface serosal involvement present
B.  Uterus with cervix, right ovary and fallopian tube:
-  Surface serosal inflammation.
-  No tumour identified.
C-F.  Appendix, rectal adhesions, left uterosacral, omentum:
-  Surface serosal inflammation.
-  No tumour identified.
-  1 peri-appendiceal and 1 omental lymph node with no evidence of malignancy
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (15.10.64, Dr G Ashcraft):
A.  A Her-2 immunostain has been performed as requested.
The tumourcells show focal 1+ positive staining, regarded as negative.

