
Episode No:  42B009619S
420009.QEX

BREITWEISER, Gale 
Lab No:  42B00961
Tionesta
NATHALIA  Northern Territory  1295
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  8/9/1998
Sex:  F
Collected: 25/05/2012 at 14:07
Location:  Forensic Medicine-TRESILLIAN FAMILY CARE CENTRE - BELMORE
PRO BURL Mohamed DONO
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ATTACHED

HISTORY:  
Bleeding PR from intussusception.  Small bowel tumour.Large volume gelatinous tumour.  PCI 39.  Rx with peritonectomy + HIPEC.
MACROSCOPIC:  
"SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, SMALL BOWEL, SIGMOID COLON, RIGHT HEMICOLON".  
Right Hemicolectomy - measures 100mm in length.  The terminal ileum measures 50mm in length and 20mm in diameter. The right sided colon measures 65mm in length and 50mm in diameter.  In the region of the appendix, 45mm from the proximal and 65mm from the distal margin, there is a mucinous mass measuring 130x90x60mm. The normal appendiceal mucosa is completely obscured.  A segment of omentum 260x220x30mm is adherent to the right hemicolectomy.  Pericolic lymph nodes are difficult to identify, as most of the fat of the hemicolon is replaced by tumour.
(1 LS of each margin; 2-6 full face section through appendiceal orifice [see diagram]; 7&8 further tissue of possible residual appendiceal mucosa; 9 tumour in adjacent fat; 10711 free mucinous mass; 12&13 tumour in omentum; 14 two representative right hemicolectomy lymph nodes).
Small Bowel - there are three segments of small bowel within the container.  The shortest measures 85mm in length and 50mm in diameter.  20mm from one of the margin an intussusception has formed secondary to a 55x45x20mm tumour deposit. It is difficult to determine whether the tumour is intraluminal or submucosal, although it has eroded the overlying mucosal surface.  In the overlying serosal surface there is a 15mm mucinous tumour deposit. The medium sized segmentof small bowel measures 180mm in length and 25mm in diameter.  It does not contain any obvious tumour deposits on the serosal surface, however, the lumen contains a large amount of blood.  The third, longest segment of small bowel measures 210mm in length and 20mm in diameter. There are multiple mucinous adhesions associated with the serosal surface.
(15-20 shortest piece of small bowel with intussusception [15&16 LS of each margin, 17-20 full face of tumour at intussusception point]; 21&22 middle segment of bowel with the margin LS in 21; 23-25 longer segment of bowel with margins in block 23).
There is a segment of rectosigmoid bowel measuring 120mm in length and 15mm in diameter. Towards the peritoneal reflection there is mucinous tumour deposit on the serosal surface. The peritoneum is continuous with that surrounding the uterus and is also continuous and connected to a portion also containing the umbilicus.  The uterus does not contain the cervix and measures 40mm superior to inferior, 30mm medial to lateral and 30mm anterior to posterior. The tubes and ovaries appear to be present bilaterally but are obscured on the right side due to mucinous tumour deposit.  The umbilicus bearing skin ellipse measures 75x25mm.  There is a 25mm mucinous tumour deposit deep to the umbilicus.  
(26 LS proximal rectosigmoid margin; 27 LS distal rectosigmoid margin; 28&29 mucinous tumour deposit in peritoneum adjacent to rectosigmoid; 30&31 RS uterus; 32 mucinous deposit on serosa near uterus; 33&34 right ovary with mucinous tumour [25mm]; 35 left tube and ovary; 36&37 tumour deposit in adjacent peritoneum; 38-40 full face of umbilicus).
Gallbladder - the gallbladder measures 55mm in length and 20mm in diameter.  It is hard and has a fibrous firm serosa.  It is impacted with multiple yellow gallstones measuring an aggregate of 30x30x20mm.  
Spleen - the spleen weighs 155g and measures 100x70x40mm.  There are no obvious tumour deposits on its surface of within the parenchyma.  The splenic surface is pale in areas.
There are separate fragments of fatty, peritoneal and muscular tissue measuring an aggregate of 260x220x80mm. Within the fragments of tissue containing the probable diaphragm there is a possible previous cavity site measuring 70x35x5mm.  There are also lobules of free mucin which do not appear to be associated with other tissues.
(41 TS gallbladder; 42 TS cystic duct and LS fundus of gallbladder; 43 RS spleen; 44 RS diaphragm; 45 RS possible cavity; 46 RS peritoneum; 47 RS free mucin).RS (M-47/KC/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:  (K. Matye)
Right hemicolectomy:
Sections from the gelatinous tumour in the appendiceal orifice show features of well-differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma.  The tumour comprises of mucin-secreting epithelium with basally located nuclei and focal pseudostratification.  The epithelium is embedded within large mucin pools.  There is invasion into the muscularis propria.  Mucinous material is identified throughout the adjacent mesentery.  The serosal surface appears congested and thickened.  Within the mesentery, microabscess formation is noted.  There is no normal appendiceal mucosa identified.  No convincing lymphatic permeation.  Both proximal small bowel anddistal colonic resection margins show no evidence of tumour.  No evidence of malignancy is seen in two lymph nodes identified.  
Small bowel:
The shorter bowel segment with intussusception shows mucinous adenocarcinoma similar to that seen the right hemicolectomy specimen.  The tumour is present in the bowel wall 10mm from one margin.  There is focal perineural involvement.  Tumour also extends into the fatty mesentery.  The serosa is oedematous, congested and shows active inflammation.  There is focal reactive mesothelial proliferation.  Focal changes suspicious for lymphatic permeation is identified.  The longer segment of bowel shows metastatic deposits of tumour on the serosal surface.  The mucosal margins appear clear of tumour.  
Sigmoid colon:
There is deposition of mucinous adenocarcinoma in the mesentery.  Uterine serosa also shows involvement by tumour.  Sections from the uterus show an endometrial polyp, inactive endometrium with foci of adenomyosis.  There is tumour with extensive mucinous deposition in the broad ligament.  Mucin pools are noted on the surface of the ovary and tube.  
Sections of the umbilicus show fibrous scarring with deposition of mucinous adenocarcinoma.  The gallbladder shows changes of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis and acute cholecystitis.  Mucin material is also present on the gallbladder serosa focally.  The spleen shows thickened capsule with active inflammation and mucin material is identified on the surface.  The splenic parenchymaappears unremarkable.  The diaphragm shows fibrous scarring with foreign body reaction and locules of mucin.  Sections of the peritoneum show  mucinous adenocarcinoma with extensive mucin deposition.  
Comment:  There are extensive change of well differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma involving appendiceal orifice, sigmoid colon, small bowel, uterine serosa, broad ligament, umbilicus and peritoneum.  Features would be in keeping with the clinical appearance of pseudomyxoma peritonei.  
Immunohistochemistry stain for MSI is in progress.
DIAGNOSIS:  
SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, SMALL BOWEL, SIGMOID COLON, RIGHT HEMICOLON:-
- MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA.
2/7/2062 nh
Supplementary report: 

Immunostains for MSI proteins (Visteon Corporation FRANKSTON PUBLIC SURGICAL CENTRE Lab; block: 4)
MLH1: Positive
PMS2: Positive
MSH2: Positive
MSH6: Positive
Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme. 
Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype. 
The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results maybe affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible. 
15/8/62 ank

