Episode No:  12N435774P
1254357.TMP

HESSEE, Hayden'FRANKLIN 
Lab No:  12N43577
Dorrie
LITHGOW  VIC3329
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  22/6/1998
Sex:  M
Collected: 16/06/2014 at 08:54
Location:  West-CAULFIELD HOSPITAL
DR Ivory Edmundo NATHOO
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Laparotomy for ? appendicitis - gelatinous material in peritoneal cavity. Also appendix in two pieces. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Appendix", consists of an appendix received in two pieces. The larger piece measures 75mm in length and the smaller piece measures 25mm in length.  In the larger specimen at one end there is a clamp which is presumed the proximal end. There are large amounts of haemorrhagic material seen over the entire serosal surface.  The wall of the appendix appears thickened with cream material to a maximum diameter of 10mm. The lumen contains small amounts of mucinous material. The separate piece of appendix is disrupted and ragged at both ends.  The maximum thickness of the wall is 3mm and the lumen appears to contain mucinous material.  Block 1 & 2- LS of tip; 2-11 - serial TS of appendix from distal to proximal; 12 & 13 - LS of proximal end; 14 - TS proximal resection margin; 15 & 16 - separate fragments seriallyTS. Entire appendix embedded.
B.  Specimen labelled "Peritoneal jelly", consists of two pieces of tan tissue with mucinous material attached measuring 32 and 35mm in maximum dimension.  Serially sectioned, AE 5 blocks. (TO: UY;XC/ec  18.8.64) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof D Irish & Dr D Dreka):
A.  Sections show an appendix in which the lumen has been expanded by a appendiceal mucinous neoplasm centred in the tip and including the distal two thirds of the appendix. 
The epithelium is serrated and largely replaced by villous adenoma with predominant low grade dysplasia however there are multiple foci of high grade dysplasia. 
The mucinous neoplasm is seen to expand the lumen and compress the surrounding tissue with no underlying lamina propria. 
There are invasive areas of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in which the glands are seen to be separate from the main tumour mass and are invading the muscularis propria, associated with a desmoplastic reaction. 
The tumour does not appear to invade through the full thickness of muscularis propria (T2), however, acellular mucin is seen to dissect through the wall and is present at the serosal surface with an accompanying peritonitis.
Areas of full thickness inflammation, haemorrhage and fibrinous exudate are present, consistent with perforation. 
The proximal margin is clear of tumour by approximately 10mm, although pools of extravasated mucin are present within the serosa at the proximal margin.
There is no lymphovascular or perineural invasion and no lymph nodes were identified in the specimen (NX). 
The separate fragments consist of organising fibroblastic tissue and inflammatory cells admixed with mucin.
B.  The specimen consists of mucin with surrounding granulation tissue and small areas of fibrous tissue. No epithelial cells were identified within or surrounding the mucin with CK20, CDX2 and CEA. In the correct clinical setting this would represent pseudomyxoma peritonei. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Appendix: 
 - Moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma arising in a villous adenoma of appendiceal mucosa
 - T2 NX MX
B.Peritoneum: Acellular mucin AND ORGANISING FIBROBLASTIC TISSUE. NO EVIDENCE OF EPITHELIAL CELLS IDENTIFIED.
 

