
Episode No:  13M486511M
1344865.DEM

Schumucker, HARVEY 
Lab No:  13M48651
Wenonah
KINGSCLIFF  ACT  6964
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  17/4/1993
Sex:  M
Collected: 13/1/2064 at :
Location:  Pathwest-MAREEBA HOSPITAL
DR Weldon MILFORD Iafrate
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
76 year old male anterior resection for histopathology.  Donuts and rectum.  Rectosigmoid Ca.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Anterior resection", consists of a length of large bowel measuring 185mm in length.  The entire specimen appears to be above the anterior peritoneal reflection margin.  12mm from the distal resection margin there is a slight pedunculated sessile lesion measuring 25 x 20mm and appearing to take onapproximately 25% of the bowel circumference.  The cut surface reveals the tumour invades into the muscularis propria and possibly through and into the underlying fat.  Within the remainder of the mucosa several uncomplicated diverticulum are identified.  Several lymph nodes are identified in the mesenteric fat.  
Blocks: 1 and 2 - distal resection margin closest to tumour; 3 - proximal resection margin; 4 to 6 - representative tumour; 7 node; 8 to 10 - lymph nodes; 11 - representative diverticulum; 12 - reserved block.
B.  Specimen labelled "Distal donut", consists of a donut of mucosa 15mm in length.  All tissue is removed fromthe stapled margin.  No definite lesion is identified.  AE 1 block.   (TO: ZA;QA/vo 14.1.64) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr E Lett)
The rectosigmoid tumour is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. A synoptic report for colonic carcinoma follows:
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR COLORECTAL CARCINOMA
Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour: Rectosigmoid colon.	
Maximum tumourdiameter: 25mm.
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 12mm (macroscopic).
Tumour perforation: No.
Microscopic Description
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT2	Invasion into muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Nine.	
Number of lymph nodes involved: None (0/9). 	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Not identified. 
Perineural invasion
Not identified.
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Diverticulum.
Residual tumour status
R0residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvant therapy
Not applicable.
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
pTNM Stage (TNM 7th Edition): stage 1

B.  Sections of the distal bowel wall donuts show fragments of colonic wall. There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy. 


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Anterior resection: 
25mm pTNM Stage 1 moderately differentiated rectosigmoid adenocarcinoma.
No evidence of malignancy in nine lymph nodes (0/9).
Low risk of microsatellite instability of IHC. 

B.  Distal donut: Noevidence of malignancy. 


