Episode No:  51Q7564582
516756.LNW

Waynick, Brook 
Lab No:  51Q75645,51Q75645
Collent
SEVEN MILE BEACH    1401
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  12/3/2008
Sex:  F
Collected: 14/08/2014 at 16:33
Location:  BELLINGER RIVER DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR Buddy MESAROS
Distribution:  DR Vandeman,  FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:
Pelvic mass, CA125=1100. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A. "UTERUS, BILATERAL OVARIES, TUBES, RECTOSIGMOID COLON". Uterus, bilateralfallopian tubes and ovaries, bowel and attached fatty tissue. Orientation is difficult but the specimen consists of uterus which is 80mm from fundus to resection margin, 55mm wide and 45mm from anterior to posterior. The left fallopian tube and ovary are difficult to identify. The left fallopian tube is approximately 20x5mm and the ovary 20x10x10mm. Directly posterior to the ?ovary is a cyst filled with mucinous/pus like material. It is 10mm in diameter. The right fallopian tube is 70x70x5-10mm. The right ovary consists of a solid/cystic/mucinous/papillary mass which is 150x120x80mm. The papillary area is on the external surface and covers an area of 80mm. The cyst is 100x80mm and the solid areas arepresent through the lesion and appear to be filled with a yellow mucinous/necrotic material. A number of papillary lesions are present on the surface of the solid areas. This mass is attached to the posterior surface of the uterus andto the segment of bowel which is located on the left posterior side and measures 120mm in length and 40mm in diameter. The mucosa of the wall is 5mm and the mucosal surface appears unremarkable. 
The uterus contains numerouswell demarcated white whorled nodules apparently leiomyomas. 
(1 cervix or resection margin of uterus; 2 anterior surface of uterus with ?muscle/tumour; 3 ?fibroid; 4 left fallopian tube; 5 left ovary; 6 cyst located in fattytissue directly posterior to left ovary; 7 resection margin of bowel; 8&9 papillary lesion on external surface; 10&11 solid pink area within tumour; 12&13 mucinous area within tumour; 14 cyst; 15 relationship of posterior wall of uteruswith ?tumour; 16 relationship of tumour to bowel). RS(M-16).
Further tissue:  (17&18 cervix; 19 endometrium; 20&21 papillary area; 22&23 solid area; 24&25 solid area right side; 26 relationship of bowel). 
B. "LEFT PELVIC NODE". A piece of fatty tissue 20x20x3mm. AE (1-1).
C. "DONUT". A donut 10mm in diameter and 15mm in length. RS (2-2).
D. "APPENDIX'. An appendix which is 50x8mm. It has a smooth shinyserosal surface. A wall 2-3mm and a lumen which has a faecolith in the tip.
(1 base; 2&3 tip). RS(6-3).
E. "RIGHT PARACOLIC GUTTER". A piece of fatty tissue 5mm. AE (1-1).
F. "LEFT PARACOLICGUTTER". Multiple pieces of tissue measuring in aggregate 40x20x5mm. There are a number of white nodules on the ?serosal surface. RS (6-3).
G. "WOUND NODULE". Solid nodule 25x20x15mm. RS (2-2).
H. "OMENTUM". A piece of omentum 170x70x5-10mm. A single white nodule less than 10mm is present on the surface. RS (4-3/OK/ht).
MICROSCOPIC:  (Dr O Steger)
A.  Sections of the cervix show endocervical glandular epithelium. No squamous mucosa is seen. The endomtrium appears inactive/weakly proliferative. In the myometrium there are benign leiomyomas. The left ovary has been identified and shows several benign epithelialinclusions and with endometriosis of the left ovary. The cystic structure posterior to the left ovary consists of necrotic tumour with features of an infiltrating well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with columnar epithelium. Desmoplastic stromal reaction is present. There is papillary/villoglandular architecture within cystic space. Cytoplasmic clearing is also seen in the apical cytoplasm in some areas. 
The surface papillary tumour of the right adnexal mass shows a villoglandular morphology with columnar cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and with many cells showing apical cilia, mucin stains demonstrate some intracytoplasmic mucinous differentiation. Cytologic atypia including mitotic activity, multilayering/pseudostratification and nucleoli and mild nuclear shape variation seen. Polymorph neutrophils are seen within epithelium and within cystic space. Sections of the adjacent solid tumour show similar features but with more apical cytoplasm although ciliated cells are also seen. Apical cytoplasmic clearing is also seen insome areas. Complex architecture is seen in the solid areas. Large cystic spaces are lined by similar atypical epithelium. Tumour is also seen with small infiltrative glands  adherent to the posterior uterine surface and the anterior uterine surface, and in this region there is also adjacent endometriosis. In association with the infiltrating adenocarcinomathere is squamous differentiation with a desmoplastic stromal reaction (block A2). Endometriosis is also seen in this region. 
Sections of the colon including the resection margins are unremarkable. Tumour is adherent to thepericolic/perirectal adipose tissue with villoglandular pattern tumour with a desmoplastic stromal reaction identified in this area. A small amount of psammomatous calcification is seen in association with the tumour.
B.  The sections show lymph nodes. Negative for malignancy. 
C.  The sections show large bowel with normal morphology.
D.  Sections of the appendix show serosal acute inflammation and serosal endometriosis/endosalpingiosis. 
E.  The sections show a small amount of fatty tissue with serosal acute and chronic infalmmation and mesothelial reaction and a small amount of infiltrating adenocarcinoma with desmoplastic stromal reaction. 
.  The sections show fibrofatty tissue in which there is endometriosis and endosalpingiosis and with infiltrating nodules of well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with well formed glandular spaces and desmoplastic stromal reaction. There is columnar cell morphology with apical cytoplasmic clearing. 
G. The sections show skeletal muscle with adipose tissue and fibrous tissue and this is infiltrated by a well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with glandular and partial villous architecture. There is columnar cell morphology with apical cytoplasmic clearing. In addition, areas of squamous differentiation are identified. 
H.  The sections show lobulated fatty tissue consistent with omentum with mesothelial reaction. There are also deposits of infiltrating adenocarcinoma with desmoplastic stromal reaction with glandular morphology with columnar epithelium. 
Immunohistochemistry (block G1): The tumour is positive for CAM5.2, and CK7. CK20 and CDX-2 are negative. CEA stains squamous differentiation in tumour. Pax-8 shows weak to modeate nuclear staining. Oestrogen receptor shows moderate to strong staining. Progesteroner eceptor shows pathcy positive staining. 
COMMENT:
The appearances are those of an adenocarcinoma with mixed morphological features. There are features favoured to represent a predominant endometrioid differentiation (including cytoplasmic clearing imparting a so-called 'secretory' appearance), and with villoglandular architecture in many areas. The surface papillary component however has a somewhat 'seromucinous' appearance. In addition, focal areas of squamous differentiation in sections from the paracervical region and the wound nodule (consistent with squamous differentiation in endometioid adenocarcinoma). 
There is endometriosis in several sections examined. 
Overall, the tumour is favoured to represent a well to moderately differentiated predominantly endometrioid adenocarcinoma with some mixed Mullerian differentiation. It is centred in the right adnexal region. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  UTERUS, TUBES, OVARIES AND RECTOSIGMOID COLON:
 - WELL TO MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA  (WITH PREDOMIANT ENDOMETRIOID DIFFERENTIATION) - SEE TEXT AND COMMENTS FOR DETAILS. 
B.  LEFT PELVIC NODE:   NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY.
C.  DONUT:    NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY.
D.  APPENDIX:  SEROSAL ENDOMETRIOSIS/ENDOSALPINGIOSIS.
E.  RIGHT PARACOLIC GUTTER:  ADENOCARCINOMA.
F.  LEFT PARACOLIC GUTTER:  ADENOCARCINOMA.
G.  WOUND NODULE:  ADENOCARCINOMA. 
H.  OMENTUM:  ADENOCARCINOMA. 
24/10/64 ht
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:  (Dr O Cabam)
Immunostains for MSI proteins (Sanmina-SCI Forensic Medicine; block: G1)
MLH1:  	POSITIVE
PMS2: 	POSITIVE
MSH2: 	POSITIVE
MSH6: 	POSITIVE
Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme. 
Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype. 
The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible. 

