
Episode No:  72B849681Q
7208496.VDQ

Freeman, TRISH 
Lab No:  72B84968
Tyler Island
EUROA  TAS  6368
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  5/1/2001
Sex:  F
Collected: 19/9/2064 at :
Location:  North-INGLEWOOD AND DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICE
DR Roman MARIANO POPER
Distribution:  
***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: EXTERNAL PATHOLOGY REVIEW  (9.1.64)

CLINICAL:
Excision fungating lesion left chest wall ?angiosarcoma.  Prior left mastectomy + ALND + radiotherapy.  Local excision down onto chest wall.  Marking suture at 12 o'clock.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Lesion left chest wall stitch 12 o'clock" consists of an excision of skin with underlying soft tissue including skeletal muscle, 110 x 95 x 25mm.  There is a suture at one end indicating 12 o'clock.  There is a haemorrhagic fungatinglesion 35 x 25 x 15mm, located over the 6 o'clock half.  The lesion extends towards the 12 o'clock margin beneath the skin.  The lesion is 75 x 60 x 30mm.  The 3 o'clock margin is inked blue and 9 o'clock black.  The specimen was serially sectioned from 12 towards 6 o'clock into twelve slices (slice one = 12 o'clock, slice twelve = 6 o'clock).  The tumour appears encapsulated with central areas of necrosis surrounded by haemorrhagic areas.  The capsule of the tumour abuts the deep and 12 o'clock margin, and is 2mm clear of the 3 o'clock margin, 15mm clear of the 9 o'clock margin and 25mm clear of the 6 o'clock margin.  The tumour does not appear to infiltrate the skeletal muscle.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - slice one tumour with 12 o'clock margin; 4 - slice two tumour 3 o'clock margin; 5 - slice two tumour deep margin; 6 - slice three tumour 3 o'clock margin; 7 - slice three tumour deep margin; 8 & 9 - slice four tumour 3 o'clock margin; 10 - slice five tumour with skin; 11 - slice six tumour with skin; 12 & 13 seven tumour with deep margin; 14 to 17 - full cross section of tumour from slice eight; 18 & 19 - fungating tumour from slice nine; 20 - tumour from slice ten; 21 - slice twelve 6 o'clock margin.  Specimen photograph taken.  Please see block diagram.  (TO: WN; WM/rt 20.9.64)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr U Corrigeux)
Sections are ofskin extending to deep subcutaneous tissue, including skeletal muscle at the deep aspect. There is an ulcerated crateriform lesion consisting of acutely inflamed fibrinous ulcer slough overlying a central core of laminated thrombus and extensive organising fibrin/haemorrhage. In areas, the organising fibrin/haemorrhage has a papilliform appearance, with cores of fibrin covered by plump endothelial cells. The endothelial cells show no significant cytologic atypia or mitotic activity. Necrosis is inconspicuous. At its periphery, the lesion is circumscribed and is surrounded by a variably thick irregular cuff of dense hyalinised fibrocollagenous tissue, organising fibrosis and fat necrosis. Special stains (Masson's trichrome, orcein and reticulin) highlight the cuff of hyalinised fibrous tissue, and although scattered distorted elastin fibers are present, no unequivocal elastic laminae are seen. Scattered collections of foamy histiocytes and cholesterol clefts are contained within the fibrocollagenous tissue. The fibrocollagenous tissue abuts the 12 o'clock (block 1) and deep margins (block 9), is 1.1mm from the 3 o'clock margin (block 4) and appearsclear of remaining margins. No infiltration of the surrounding dermocutaneous tissue by atypical cells or a vasoformative lesion is seen. The overlying intact epidermis shows reactive change and mild to moderate acute inflammatory cell exocytosis.  
COMMENT:
The 35mm ulcerated left chest wall mass is a circumscribed lesion composedof acute ulcer slough overlying a central core of organising fibrin/haemorrhage and surrounded by a variably thick cuff of fibrous tissue. There is no significant cytologic atypia, mitotic activity, necrosis or infiltration of surroundingtissues. 
Overall, the features are most in keeping with a Masson's tumour (Papillary endothelial hyperplasia). Masson's tumours are considered to be exuberant forms of organising thrombus, and although most arise within the lumen of a vessel, extravascular Masson's tumours arise within haematomas at any site, and may present as deep soft tissue lesions. The pathologic differential diagnosis includes an angiosarcoma, however, the absenceof endothelial multi-layering, mitoses, necrosis and infiltration of the surrounding tissue, make this diagnosis unlikely.
The case will be sent to the Bone and Soft Tissue Meeting (DORRIGO MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE) for a second opinion and a supplementary report will be issued. 

DIAGNOSIS:
Left chest wall lesion: Favour Masson's tumour (Papillary endothelial hyperplasia) (Please see comment). 

***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: EXTERNAL PATHOLOGY REVIEW  (9.1.64)
Prof KENNY Mozzone, LOCKHART & DISTRICT HOSPITAL Hospital reports:
"MICROSCOPIC REPORT:
Bone & Soft Tissue Tumour Meeting 27.9.64.
Drs U Boisseau, U Unglaub and U Folkes agree that the tumour is a thick walled cystic mass containing blood and organising inspissated fibrin, the latter showing the features of papillary endothelial hyperplasia. We could find no evidence of malignancy.  
SUMMARY:
Left chest wall:  Cystic mass (post surgery and radiotherapy) with organising haematoma/thrombus consistent with papillary endothelial hyperplasia". 
 


