
 1431414.YUM
Wimbish, Robt LOREN
14K14149

Last edited : 23/9/2064		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Distal oesophageal AdenoCa.  Neoadjuvent chemoRTx completed 9-10 weeks ago.  Ivor Lewis oesophagectomy.  Cardio-oesophageal junction.  Sub-carinal lymph node.  Bronchial lymph node.  Proximal lymph node.  Pt recurrent smoker.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Cardio-oesophageal junction", consists of a distaloesophagus attached to the proximal stomach (Ivor Lewis resection).  The distal oesophagus measures 50mm in length and 35mm in open diameter.   The proximal stomach measures 100 x 55 x 30mm and the greater omentum measures 55mm and the lesser curve measures 18mm.  There is minimal omentum attached, which measures 75 x 30 x 20mm and contains several lymph nodes ranging from 3mm to 25mm in maximum dimension.  The oesophagus is inked blue.  On opening there is an ulcerated lesion within the cardio-oesophageal junction which extends into the proximal stomach.  The lesion is circumferential around the oesophagus and measures 40 x 40mm in area.  The rest of the stomach appears unremarkable.  
Blocks:  1- shave of proximal oesophageal margin; 2 to 10 - contiguous sections through oesophageal junction ulcerated area (anterior clockwise); 11 to 29 - odd blocks paired with even blocks, full TS through ulcerated area within proximal stomach (anterior clockwise); 30 - normal stomach away from tumour; 31 - distal gastric margin; 32 to 36 - lymph nodes around oesophagus (32 - one lymph node; 33- one lymph  node; 34 to 36 -lymph nodes as seen); 37 to 40 - lymph nodes below gastro-oesophageal junction (37- one lymph node serially sectioned; 38 to 40 - lymph nodes as seen).  Please see diagram.  (OQ/mm 19.9.64) 
B.  Specimen labelled "Sub-carinal", consists of two lymph nodes measuring 10 and 12mm in maximum dimension.  Specimen serially sectioned and AE 2 blocks.
Blocks: 1 - one lymph node; 2 - one lymph node.
C.  Specimen labelled "Bronchial lymph node", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue containing a ?lymph node measuring 3mm in maximum dimension.  The piece of fat measures 10mm in maximum dimension.  Specimen serially sectioned and AE 1 block.   
D.  Specimen labelled "Proximal lymph node", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 30mm in maximum dimension containing two lymph nodes measuring 4 and 8mm in maximum dimension.  Specimen AE. Blocks: 1 - one lymph node; 2 - one lymph node. 
(TI/vo 19.9.64) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr N Aschbacher):
A.  Sections show a largearea of mucosal ulceration at the cardio-oesophageal junction.  Granulation tissue is present at the base of ulcer with associated inflammation.  The deep tissue shows marked fibrosis.  The overall appearances are in keeping with those of previous neoadjuvant therapy.  No residual tumour is seen.  The rest of oesophagus is unremarkable.  There is no evidence of Barrett's oesophagus.  The rest of gastric mucosa is unremarkable.  No Helicobater-like organisms are seen.  The resection margins are clear.  There is no evidence of lymphovascular or perineural invasion.  Fourteen (14) regional lymph nodes are identified.  1 lymph node is almost completely replaced by haylinised fibrosis, in keeping with previous neoadjuvant therapy.  No residual tumour is seen.  The other lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of tumour metastasis.
B.  Two (2) lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Sections show normal appearing fatty tissue only.  Nolymph nodes are identified.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
D.  Two (2) lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
Degree of regression after preoperative Chemoradiation:  0 (complete response)
Summary - TNM 7thEdition
(y)pT0     pN0     pMX     R0
DIAGNOSIS:
A to D.  Cardio-oesophageal junction and lymph nodes - Ulcer and fibrosis in keeping with neoadjuvant therapy.  No residual tumour.  (ypT0, N0, MX)

