Episode No:  46P911855P
4669118.OPP

FARINAS, JUDY Ciera 
Lab No:  46P91185
Tunbridge Wells
SOMERSET  ACT  2147
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  1/9/2004
Sex:  F
Collected: 30/1/2064 at :
Location:  DICKINSON 3 NORTH-GEORGE TOWN HOSPITAL AND COMMUNITY CENTRE
DR TONY JOSUE GOH
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
2ND stage liver resection for colorectal liver mets.  Segment 3 resection.Partial segment 4b resection.  Segment 4b/8 (remnant right hemiliver).  Removal portacath due to local MSSA.  Met bowel cancer.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Liver segment 3" consists of a piece of liver tissue120 x 60 x 50mm.  The resection margin is inked blue after removing the staples on the margin.  Slicing reveals a solid nodule with pale and yellow cut surfaces with focus of ?necrosis.  The nodule focally abuts the liver capsule and is 3mm from the inked margin.  Over the capsular surface of the liver and away from the nodule there is an ill-defined tan area with roughened surface 18 x 15 x 3mm.
Blocks:  1 &2 - paired sections of the nodule (block 1 includes capsular surface, block 2 includes the resection margin); 3 - section of tumour, reserved block; 4 & 5 - the roughened capsular area (the roughened surface is inkedblack); 6 - liver away from the nodule.
B.  Specimen labelled "Liver segment 4a" consists of a piece of liver tissue 60 x 45 x 17mm.  The resection margin is inked blue after removing the staples.  Slicing reveals a subcapsular solid nodule 20 x 9 x 6mm.  The nodule has a pale and yellow possibly necrotic cut surfaces.  The nodule is 10mm from the inked margin.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representative sections of the nodule (block 1 includes the inked margin).
C.  Specimen labelled "Liver segment 4b" consists of a piece of liver tissue 42 x 35 x 25mm.  The resection margin is inked blue.  Slicing reveals a pale solid nodule 2mm from the capsule and 2mm from the resection margin.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representative of the nodule.  (TO: JJ; EV/rt 3.2.64)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Perilli):
A.  Sections show a 22mm (microscopic measurement) subcapsular deposit of moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma.  The carcinoma is composed of complex and tubular glands, many with central areas of necrosis.There is also an area of parenchymal necrosis and uninvolved capsular adhesion comprised of organising fibrous tissue and striated muscle containing chronic inflammation and scattered giant cells.  The tumour does not penetrate the capsule of the liver and is 4mm clear of the surgical resection margin.  While there is tumour associated necrosis which may relate to prior therapy however the bulk of the tumour is viable.  No definite lymphovascular invasion is seen.  Away from the tumour the liver shows no significant abnormality.  
B.  Sections of liver show a 20mm subcapsular deposit of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with similar appearances to that described above.  The majority of the tumour is viable.  The tumour is 8.5mm from the surgical resection margin. There is some capsular fibrosis but no evidence of capsular penetration by tumour.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  The adjacent liver shows no significant abnormality.  
C.  Sections of liver show a 14mm (microscopic measurement) subcapsular deposit of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with similar appearances to that described above.  The tumour is 0.8mm from the surgical resection margin.  No capsular penetration is seen.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  
COMMENT:
A to C.  The tumour deposits show similar morphology to the previously excised metastatic liver deposits (4669118) and are consistent with a colorectal primary.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Liver segment 3:  Metastatic adenocarcinoma consistent with colorectal primary, margin clear.  
B.  Liver segment 4a:  Metastatic adenocarcinoma consistentwith colorectal primary, margins clear.
C.  Liver segment 4b:  Metastatic adenocarcinoma consistent with colorectal primary, 0.8mm from resection margin.  

