
Episode No:  63J199560C
6331995.QAC

Vilchis, Holley 
Lab No:  63J19956
Pemdevon
WYNDHAM  TAS  6154
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  10/3/2012
Sex:  F
Collected: 16/12/2014 at 14:09
Location:  ONCOLOGY (GYNAE)-PORT LINCOLN HEALTH SERVICES
DR ELIAS Carrol Chenot
Distribution:  DR Kemick

CLINICAL:
Large bowel obstruction.  Sigmoid Ca.   Appendix.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Sigmoid colon" and consists of a section of large bowel measuring 205mm in length. 45mm from one resection margin there is an area of thickening within the bowel wall for a length of about 85mm.  The cut surface in the area of bowel wall thickening shows numerous diverticula, many of which appear uncomplicated, however there are areas of pus with stranding in the fat associated with some diverticulae.  10mm away from the area of bowel thickening there is a pedunculated 8mm polyp which appears confined to themucosa.  No definite mass lesions identified.  
Blocks: 1 - resection margins; 2 & 3 - normal appearing diverticulum; 4 to 10 - representative overlying mucosa with inflammatory areas; 11 - separate polyp;12 - apical node; 13 to 15 - further representative nodes.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Appendix" and consists of an appendix measuring 45mm in length with a maximal external diameter of 10mm.  The serosa appears slightly irregular.  The maximum thickness of the wall is 3mm.  The lumen appears obliterated particularly near the tip.  Small amounts of faecal material are identified.  
Blocks: 1 - LS tip; 2 - mid third; 3 - shave resection margin proximal third.   All appendix embedded.    (VA/ta 19/2/64) 
 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Q Foiles & registrar Dr Q Estimable):
A.  Sections of the large bowel show multiple diverticulae with associated hypertrophy of muscularis propria.  Multiple areas of abscess formation are present within the mesentery surrounded by organising granulation tissue, foreign body granulomas and fibrosis.  The polyp identified macroscopically is an inflammatory pseudopolyp.  Sixteen (16) lymph nodes are identified which show no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy. 

B.  Sections of the appendix show a fibrinous peritonitis.  In addition there is focal mucosal ulceration with cryptitis and architectural distortion.  No transmural acute inflammation is present.  A single granuloma is noted within the appendix wall.  No organisms are identified with PAS or Truant stains.  Although these changes may be secondary to diverticular disease or an incidental appendicitis, the possibility of Crohn's disease may need to be considered.  A single benign lymph node is identified.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Sigmoid colon:  Complicated diverticular disease with abscess formation.
B.  Appendix:  Fibrinous peritonitis and mucosal inflammation (see above).

