
Episode No:  48N677732P
4856777.KFP

Sampselle, Flynn LELAND 
Lab No:  48N67773
Hansletts
BLACKWATER  NT  6522
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  7/8/1997
Sex:  M
Collected: 7/4/2065 at :
Location:  Laverty Pathology-EASTERN EYRE HEALTH AND AGED CARE - CLEVE CAMPUS
DR NORRIS GLENN Nesler
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
?Inflammation/?infection/?tumour.  Laparotomy.  Pelvic mass (prior biopsies ?low grade liposarcoma).  Multiple abdominal collections.  Hypertension.  Pelvic mass with large abscess cavity, frozen section c/w adenocarcinoma.  
1.  Pelvic mass with rectosigmoid ?primary adenocarcinoma.  2.  Appendiceal stump ?primary adenocarcinoma.  2.  Wall of upper abdominal abscess cavity.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "?Inflammation ?tumour" consists of a piece of tan soft tissue, 12mm across.  AE frozen section in 1 block.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma.  
Phone result to (anaesthetist) Dr Tomek by Dr M Plagens/Dr M Buchalter at 4pm on 05.02.15
B.  Specimen labelled "Sigmoid colon/pelvic tumour" consists of a segment of large bowel 300mm in length and varying circumference.  At one end of the bowel is a stapled margin, and the bowel is 90mm circumference.  The opposite stapled margin is shorter and appears to be submucosal, and the bowel at this end of 55mm circumference.  There is minimal attached mesocolon, 20mm in width.  
Within the mid section of the colon there is an adhesion between adjacent colon segments.  In the bowel adjacent to this adhesion there is a circumferential exophytic tan tumour, 70mm in maximum dimension.  The tumour is 120mm clear of the closest stapled margin.  The tumour perforates through the entire bowel wall thickness, with a transmural defect, 25 x 20mm.  Surrounding this defect there are serosal deposits of tan necrotic tumour, spanning an area 90mm across (inked black).  There is a large area of necrosis and probable tumour in the mesocolic fat which is entrapped between the adherent loops of bowel.
On the opposite serosal surface, also adjacent to thebowel adhesion there is haemorrhagic and fibrinous exudate 60 x 25mm.  Within the bowel there are two pedunculated mucosal polyps, both 7mm across. These polyps are at least 30mm clear of the closet stapled margin.  
There is deposition of haemorrhagic and fibrinous exudate adjacent to the end of bowel near the first stapled margin.  This area is 40mm across, and 25mm clear of the margin.  Haemorrhagic serosal deposits are also seen near the shorter stapled margin.Lymph nodes are difficult to identify within the mesocolon.  No apical lymph node is identifiable.  Also received are multiple fragments of necrotic tumour 60mm in aggregate.   
Blocks:  1- bowel at stapled margin; 2 & 3 - two mucosal polyps; 4 & 5 - edge of tumour with uninvolved bowel; 6 to 8 - bowel with tumour at site of perforation; 9 - tumour with adherent loops of bowel; 10 - tumour at site of bowel perforation; 11 - necrosis in mesocolon between adherent loops of bowel; 12 - opposite stapled margin; 13 - bowel with haemorrhagic serosal deposits near first staple margin; 14 & 15 - haemorrhagic serosal deposits near shorter stapled margin; 16 - one lymph node; 17 - multiple lymph nodes.  Specimen photograph taken; 18 to 26 - pericolic fat. 
C.  Specimen labelled "?Appendix" consists of an appendix received partially opened.  The appendix is 60mm in length and 17mm diameter.  There appears to be haemorrhagic tissue over the serosa.  The wall is 3mm thick.  The lumen contains haemorrhagic material.  No focal lesions are seen within the appendix.  
Blocks:  1 to 3 - LS through distal/tip of appendix; 4 to 9 - TS serially embedded from tiptowards base; 10 - shave TS appendix adjacent to stapled margin.  AE.
D.  Specimen labelled "Upper abdominal abscess" consists of a piece of soft tissue 45 x 35 x 5mm.  There appears to be fibrinous exudate over one surface.AE 4 blocks.  (TO: SW:  SP/mm 7.4.65) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by A/Prof M Trippensee):  
The tumour was re-examined after assessment of the initial sections and extensive additional sampling of the pericolic fat was performed.
There is a circumferential moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma which has perforated through the wall of the colon. Adenocarcinoma is also present on the appendix (Specimen C) and within the wall of the upper abdominal abscess (Specimen D). A synoptic report is as follows:

Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour: Sigmoid colon	
Maximum tumour diameter:   70  mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  120 mm
Tumour perforation:     Yes (pT4)
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Immunohistochemistry: CK7 Negative, CK 20 Positive, CDX2 Positive.

Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT4b	Tumour directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Lymph nodes
Number of lymphnodes present: 3	
Number of lymph nodes involved: 1
The specimen was re-examined and extensive sampling of the mesocolon was conducted. No further lymph nodes were identified in the additional sections.	
pN1a	Metastases in 1 regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Present (Mural / Extramural) / Absent
Perineural invasion
Present - within deep layers of colonic wall (B7).
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pM1	Distant metastasis confirmed	Site: Appendix
Background abnormalities/other comments
There are two tubular adenomas with low grade dysplasia
Other: Chronic changes consistent with perforation are seen within the mesocolon, containing necrotic debris, inflammation and organic material encased within fibrous tissue. At the site of perforation, viable tumour is present.
The serosal deposits consist of dense fibrous stoma, with foamy macrophages, reactive fibroblasts and granulation vessels. This is consistent with previous chemoradiotherapy effect.
The appendix (Specimen C) shows adenocarcinoma infiltrating into the muscularis propria.
The upper abdominal abscess (Specimen D) shows fibrous tissue, with foamy macrophages, chronic inflammatory cells and occasional giant cells. There are small residual cords of adenocarcinoma within the fibrotic tissue. This is consistent with partial chemoradiotherapy effect. 
The reports of the previous biopsies of retroperitoneum are noted (Atmos Energy report 48N67773 and EXMOUTH HOSPITAL Hospital report MV56777326). The core biopsy from KING EDWARD MEMORIAL HOSPITAL has been obtained and reviewed in association with the current resection specimen.
Within the pericolic fat in the current resection there are areas of fat necrosis and reactive changes with variability in lipocyte size and focal nuclear hyperchromasia. There is associated fibrosis, inflammatory infiltration and aggregates of histiocytes. When seen in the broader context of the colonic resection these changes are consistent with inflammatory and reactive changes due to abscess formation. 
These changes are similar to those seen in the previous biopsy and may account for the previous interpretation of atypia. 
Residual tumour status
R2	Macroscopic margin involvement
Response to neoadjuvant therapy
Grade 3 (poorresponse) - Minimal or no tumour kill; extensive residual cancer
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Absence (loss) ofnuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
pT4b     pN1     pM1     R2	

Comment:This result was discussed with Prof M Greenawalt. Representative sections have also been reviewed with Dr M Combee in view of the previous diagnosis of liposarcoma (see above).
DIAGNOSIS: 
SIGMOID COLON: ADENOCARCINOMA WITH PERFORATION AND INVOLVEMENT OF APPENDIX.

