Episode No:  49Q654583U
4966545.XIU

SALLEY, Karissa BRYNN 
Lab No:  49Q65458
Mulford
LAUNCHING PLACE  Northern Territory  6332
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  20/11/2021
Sex:  F
Collected: 25/07/2013 at 13:58
Location:  4 JABIRU PLACE-PETERBOROUGH CAMPUS
DR Zoila Randy BRITTEN
Distribution:  DR Weadon,  FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (3.12.63):


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (3.9.63):


CLINICAL:
46 year old with bilateral complex ovarian masses, ascites, raised tumour markers, liver lesions.  3 week history of abdominal distension.  10 dayhistory of constipation.  Sepsis and ascites and pleural effusions.  At surgery, retroperitoneal bowel perf at sigmoid, likely primary sigmoid tumour.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right ovary and tube", consists of a lobulated mass 190 x 128 x 75mm with an attached oedematous and congested fallopian tube, 90 x20 x 15mm.  The outer surface is generally smooth with a focally roughened area at one end.  The cut surface shows that approximately 80% of the mass is solid and consists of tan coloured, extensively necrotic tumour.  The rest of the mass is cystic and there is blood stained serous fluid within the cyst.  Representative for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section de blocked; 2 - frozen section de blocked; 3 and 4 - fallopian tube; 5 to 17 - ovary and tumour.  
FORZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma favour bowel metastasis. 
Phone results to Dr Petaway by Dr L Schmeichel at 4:00pm on 25.07.13
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus and cervix", consists of an opened uterus with attached cervix weighing 66g.  The uterus measures 85 x 45 x35mm and has a generally smooth shiny serosal surface apart from a fibrinous exudate on part of the posterior serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 22 x 20mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 2mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium 17mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix; 4 to 6 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix; 7 and8 - posterior body serosa with fibrin.
C.  Specimen labelled "Left tube and ovary", consists of a fallopian tube and attached ovarian mass.  The fallopian tube is oedematous and haemorrhagic and measures 61mm in length by 20 x 10mm in maximum diameter.  The mass measures 70 x 60 x 45mm and has a smooth outer surface.  On sectioning the ovary is expanded by a mainly solid, tan coloured tumour mass with central necrosis. 
Blocks: 1 and 2 - fallopian tube; 3 to 8 .
D.  Specimen labelled "Mid sigmoid", consists of a 150mm length of large bowel with two stapled margins measuring 55mm (inked blue) and 42mm (inked black).  There is a perforation in the middle of the specimen whichcovers an area of 40 x 35mm, 55mm from the black margin.  The perforation is full thickness through to the mucosa and the surrounding serosa and mesocolon is covered with a fibrinous exudate.  The bowel appears congested and hemorrhagic.On opening, there is a circumferential exophytic tan tumour arising from the mucosa and extending through to the serosal surface.  The tumour is 35 x 20 x 5mm, and is 52mm from the distal surgical margin and 68mm from the proximal margin.  The bowel is dilated to a diameter of 55 x 50mm proximal to the tumour.  The bowel mucosa away from the tumour is unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 - blue surgical margin; 2 - black surgical margin; 3 to 6 - full face of tumour and perforation (see diagram); 7 to 12 - lymph nodes; 13 - normal bowel away from tumour.  (TO: HF;NJ/vo 28.9.63)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr L Daron):
A.   Sections show ovary which is enlarged by a deposit of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, consistent with a metastasis from colon.  The tumour is extensively necrotic. Sections of the fallopian tube show oedema of paratubal tissues but the tube itself is unremarkable. There is some acute inflammatory exudate on the serosal surface of part of the tube.
B.   A section of the posterior cervix shows focal metastatic adenocarcinoma on the serosal surface. The cervix is otherwise unremarkable.  Sections of the endometrium show that this is inactive. There are foci of metastatic adenocarcinoma on the serosa of the posterior uterus and in the outer myometrium of the anterior uterus; some of this myometrial tumour is within lymphatic vessels. 
C.   Sections of the ovary show a deposit of adenocarcinoma consistent with a metastasis from colon.  The tumour shows prominent necrosis.  There is some acute inflammatory exudate,with focal associated tumour, on the serosa of the ovary.  Sections of the fallopian tube show oedema of paratubal tissues and acute inflammatory exudate on some of the serosal surface.  The tube is otherwise unremarkable.   
D.   Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour:	
Maximum tumour diameter:   35mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  52mm
Tumour perforation:     Yes (pT4) 
Microscopic Description

Type
AdenocarcinomaNOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate.
Local invasion
pT4a	Tumour penetrates the surface of the visceral peritoneum
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not involved
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:  11	
Number of lymph nodes involved:  1	
pN1a	Metastases in 1 regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Present (Extramural)  
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pM1	Distant metastasis confirmed	
Site:	Both ovaries, uterine and cervical serosa, and outer myometrium. 
Background abnormalities/other comments
No. 
Residual tumour status
RX	Cannot be assessed
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status:  To follow.	


DIAGNOSIS:
A.   Right ovary and tube:  Metastatic adenocarcinoma.
B.   Uterus:  Metastatic adenocarcinoma onserosa of posterior uterus and cervix, and in outer myometrium of anterior uterus.  
C.   Left ovary and tube:  Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 
D.   Mid sigmoid:  Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with one lymph node metastasis (1/11), and perforation.  
pT4A  pN1  pM1  RX. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (3.9.63):
D.  Mismatch repair stains:
MLH1:   Preserved nuclear staining.
PMS2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6:   Preserved nuclear staining.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI).
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (3.12.63):
K-Ras Gene Mutation Analysis Performed At North Pathology.
"The K-Ras oncogene has been screened for mutations in exon 2, codons 12 and 13.  K-Ras mutations have been associated with resistance to Erbitux.  The purpose of this screening is to determine theK-Ras mutation status in the tumour of an individual affected by colorectal cancer.  This status will be used to predict the patient's response to Erbitux. 
RESULT:	NEGATIVE - MUTATION NOT IDENTIFIED. 
Methods Employed:
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and pyrosequencing.
COMMENT:
This result indicates that the patient may benefit from treatment with Erbitux. However, a negative result does not rule out the possibility of a mutation being present in another exon or in codons 12 and 13 in exon 2 at levels below the threshold of detection (5%).  [Results obtained from block: 49Q65458.C5.  NB:tested area contains ~85% tumour]".    
 
 

