
Episode No:  03E726767U
0317267.QTU

LININGTON, TISHA KARLENE 
Lab No:  03E72676,03E72676
W Masonic View
COLAC  South Australia  2069
Specimen: Fluid,Tissue
D.O.B:  9/2/2023
Sex:  F
Collected: 22/09/2014 at 16:30
Location:  RENAL CLINIC - BIGGENDEN MULTIPURPOSE HEALTH SERVICE
DR FLORENCIO WENDELL GREMMELS
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Advanced serous ovarian cancer post 7 cycles of chemotherapy.  Pre op TAH.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus and cervix" consists of a uterus with attached cervix weighing 87g.  The uterus measures 80 x 55 x 40mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The cervix measures 30 x 27mm and is unremarkable.  On sectioning the endometrium is 2mm and myometrium is 20mm in maximum thickness with possible foci of adenomyosis.  A possible white nodule is identified on the ectocervix measuring 5mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks:  1 to 4 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 5 - one longitudinal section of cervix; 6 to 8 - full LS of posterior body and cervix; 9 - possible nodule on the ectocervix in the posterior portion.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Right ovary and right fallopian tube" consists of an ovary with attached fallopian tube.  The tube measures 35mm in length and 7mm in dimeter.  The ovary measures 50 x 35 x 32mm.  The outer surface of the ovary is smooth and unremarkable.  The ovary is serially transversely sectioned.  The cut sections show oedematous stroma with areas of haemorrhage. Small cysts are identified in the periphery 3mm in maximum dimension containing clear fluid.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Left ovary and left fallopian tube" consists of a tube with attached ovary.  The fallopian tube measures 37mm in length and 10mm in diameter and the attached ovary is 60 x 55 x 45mm.  The serosalsurface of the ovary is smooth and shiny.  The cut surface reveals a solid cystic lesion with extensive necrosis.  Papillary excrescences are identified measuring 20mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks:  1 - fallopian tube fimbrial end;2 to 30 - ovary.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a piece of omentum measuring 320 x 110 x 10mm.  Serially transversely sectioned.  White firm nodules are identified in the fatty parenchyma ranging from 3 to 10mm.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representative section of white nodules; 3- representative section of omentum.  
E.  Specimen labelled "Appendix" consists of an appendix with attached mesoappendix measuring 55 x 10 x 10mm.  The serosa is inked grey and unremarkable.  The specimen is serially sectioned.  The cut surfaces are unremarkable. 
Blocks:  1- tip of the appendix; 2 - base of the appendix; 3 - middle portion of the appendix.  AE.
F.  Specimenlabelled "Left urosacral" consists of a piece of tan tissue measuring 10 x 5 x 5mm.  BAE 1 block.  (TO: MZ  FT/mm 25.11.64) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr C Milloy)
A.  Sections show multifocal high grade serous adenocarcinoma in the uterus and cervix. Foci of carcinoma are seen within the endometrium, myometrium, uterine serosa, cervical stroma and at the posterior cervical serosal surface. Foci of lymphovascular space invasion are seen. The adjacent endometrium appears inactive with focal cystic atrophy. The myometrium shows adenomyosis. There is no evidence of Human papillomavirus or CIN.  
B.  Sectionsof the right ovary show scattered foci of high grade serous adenocarcinoma. There is a focus suspicious for lymphovascular space invasion. Adenocarcinoma is present less than 0.1mm from the ovarian serosal surface focally (B15). Sectionsof the right fallopian tube fimbrial end show extensive involvement by serous adenocarcinoma, which effaces the epithelium, infiltrates through the tubal wall, and is very close to the serosal surface. Foci suspicious for lymphovascularspace invasion are seen. No definite fallopian tube carcinoma in situ is seen. 
C.  Sections of the left ovary show extensive involvement by high grade serous adenocarcinoma. The adenocarcinoma has a mixed papilliform, solidand cribriform architecture and shows prominent areas of cystic/haemorrhagic change. There are scattered foci of lymphovascular space invasion (C10), as well as, ovarian surface involvement (C7). Sections of the fallopian tube show scattered malignant cells within the fallopian tube lumen, however, no diagnostic in situ tubal dysplasia or CIS is seen. 
D.  Sections of omentum show multiple foci of metastatic high grade serous adenocarcinoma, up to 8.0mm. A focus suspicious for lymphovascular space invasion is present. An involved lymph node is also identified (1/1). The adjacent omentum shows patchy mild to moderate chronic inflammation and patchy mild reactive mesothelial hyperplasia. 
E.  The appendix has been examined in its entirety. The appendix shows fibrous obliteration of the lumen. There is patchy mild acute serositis, but there is no evidence of acute appendicitis. Thereis a single atypical cell on the serosal surface, as well as, very occasional small psammomatous calcifications, suspicious for serosal involvement by metastatic adenocarcinoma. No pathogenic organisms or granulomas are identified. 
F.  Multiple levels show fragments of congested fibrocollagenous tissue that are largely obscured by diathermy artefact. No diagnostic evidence of malignancyis seen. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus and cervix: Multifocal high grade serous adenocarcinoma of uterus and cervix with involvement of the uterine serosa, posterior cervical serosa and lymphovascular space invasion. 

B.  Rightovary and fallopian tube: High grade serous adenocarcinoma involving the fallopian tube and right ovary.

C.  Left ovary and fallopian tube: Extensive ovarian involvement by high grade serous adenocarcinoma with focal lymphovascular space invasion and serosal surface involvement. 

D.  Omentum: Metastatic serous adenocarcinoma (high grade), including an involved omental lymph node (1/1). 

E.  Appendix: Patchy mild acute serositis. A single atypical cell is also present on the serosa, of uncertain clinical significance. 

F.  Left uterosacral: Fibrocollagenous tissue showing severe diathermy change. 





