
Episode No:  30O469732X
3054697.IFX

WARTERS, Branden 
Lab No:  30O46973
Chasner
STAWELL  WA  3814
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  22/8/2000
Sex:  M
Collected: 04/11/2014 at 08:45
Location:  PATHOLOGYWEST-TERANG & MORTLAKE HEALTH SERVICE
DR GREG REGINALD SWAINEY
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Mid rectal cancer - MRI T3 N1, neoadjuvant short course DXRT.  Ultralow anterior resection, 5cm distal clearance fresh, good macroscopic clearance.  No liver mets. Specimen opened antimesenteric border, almost circumferential tumour.  Rectal adenocarcinoma.  + donut. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Ultralowanterior resection", consists of two sections of large bowel.  One section measures 240mm which includes the tumour, the other section measures 170mm in length. The larger section with the tumour was received opened and the distal margin appears at the anterior peritoneal reflection margin.  45mm from the distal resection margin there is an ulcerated tumour running 50mm along the length of bowel which occupies approximately 85% ofthe circumference of the bowel.  The posterior right rectal margin is inked black and the posterior left rectal margin is inked blue.  The tumour appears based in the mid rectum.The cut surface reveals the tumour penetrates into fat. The smaller section of bowel has several diverticula within it. 
Block 1 - distal resection margin of main specimen; 2 - proximal resection margin of main specimen; 3 - tumour closest to margin (left lateral rectal margin); 4-14 -further blocks of tumour; 15 - apical node of upper rectal mesentery; 16-18 - further lymph nodes from upper rectal mesentery; 19 & 20 - lymphnodes from pararectal fat; 21 - resection margin of other smaller section of bowel; 23 - lymph nodes from mesentery of smaller section of bowel. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Donut", consists of a donut of mucosa 20 x 15mm for a length of 15mm. No definite lesion is identified.  Representative sections in 1 block.
(TO: SL/ec  6.1.64) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr K Broman)
A and B.
Site of tumour:  Mid rectum	
Maximum tumour diameter: 50mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  45mm (distal)
Tumour perforation:     No
For rectal tumours
Relation of tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection:
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT3	Beyond muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not involved
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:   17mm (Left lateral margin, perirectal fat)
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: 22	
Number of lymph nodes involved:  0	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascularinvasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Diverticular disease is seen in the separate length of large bowel. The donuts show no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Grade 2 to 3 (minimal to poor response) - Extensive residual cancer is seen in the majority of the lesion, in some areas the residual cancer is outgrown by fibrosis
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
ypT3     pN0     pMX     R0	


 

