
Episode No:  14O5566569
145556.QOR

KRZYNOWEK, DEANDRE 
Lab No:  14O55665
Pendennis
MOUNT ISA  WA  3712
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  10/3/1999
Sex:  M
Collected: 14/03/2013 at 09:13
Location:  SEALSCentral-MUSWELLBROOK HOSPITAL
DR JEWEL ANDREW CIMMINO
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Recurrent SCC - re-excision of 3.00 margin (neck).  Re-excision of SCC, right upper back + neck.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Superior jugular margin" consists of an unorientated and irregularly shaped piece of tan/yellow solid tissue 11 x 6 x 4mm.  The margin is inked blue.  BAE one block. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Inferior jugular margin" consists of an unorientated piece of tan solid tissue 11 x 5 x 5mm.  The margin is inked blue.  BAE one block. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Margin of jugular vein" consists of an unorientated piece of tan tissue 7 x 2 x 2mm.  Bisected longitudinally, AE one block. 
D.  Specimen labelled "3 o'clock margin anterior carotid" consists of an unorientatedand irregularly shaped piece of tan solid tissue 20 x 7 x 3mm.  Trisected longitudinally, AE one block. 
E.  Specimen labelled "Re-excision of SCC right upper back and neck, single suture at 3 o'clock" consists of a "C"-shaped resection of skin with subcutaneous tissue 70 x 13 x 25mm.  There is a sutureon the convexity marking 3 o'clock.  The concave surface is inked blue and the convex surface is inked black.  The specimen is serially sliced and blocked from 12 to 6 o'clock (8 & 9 - paired sections; 10 & 11- paired sections; 12 & 13 - paired sections).  AE twenty-one blocks.  (Please see attached diagram).  (LU/cc 16/5/63) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr E Nizo - 20.5.2063)
A.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue containing skeletal muscle. Some of the skeletal muscle shows degenerative type nuclear atypia. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
B.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue containing skeletal muscle. Some of the skeletal muscle shows degenerative type nuclear atypia. There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue containing skeletal muscle. Some of the skeletal muscle shows degenerative type nuclear atypia. There is no evidence of malignancy.
D.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue containing skeletal muscle. Some of the skeletal muscle shows degenerative type nuclear atypia. There is no evidence of malignancy.
E.  Sections are of skin extending to deep subcutis, including numerous degenerate skeletal muscles at the deep aspect. The skin is largely ulcerated with overlying inflamed granulation tissue. The dermosubcutaneous tissue show florid changes consistent with recent surgery. A focus of residual moderate to well differentiated squamous cell carcinoma is identified (blocks E14 and E15). The carcinoma is up to 2.2mm thick, 8.0 to the closest peripheral margin (9 o'clock margin) and 1.6mm to the deep margin (block 14). Theadjacent intact skin shows changes of actinic keratosis and pseudo-epitheliomatous hyperplasia.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Superior jugular margin: No evidence of malignancy. 

B.  Inferior jugular margin: No evidence of malignancy.

C.  Margin of jugular vein: No evidence of malignancy.

D.  3 o'clock margin anterior carotid: No evidence of malignancy.

E.  Re-excision of lesion, right upper back and neck: Squamous cell carcinoma, clear of margins. 







