Episode No:  33V510919N
3385109.CYN

BAILIE, JULES KOORI 
Lab No:  33V51091
South Polo
WATERFORD  South Australia  5412
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  2/7/1974
Sex:  M
Collected: 04/11/2013 at 10:15
Location:  STGEORGE PRIVATE-BARWON HEALTH - NEWCOMB RENAL UNIT CAMPUS
DR SETH ANTONE STUMME
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Parotid lung.  SCC of parotid.  Hx of IHD, AF, T2DM, GORD.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Anterior maseter" consists of a piece of muscle measuring 5 x 4 x 4mm.   AE for frozen section. 
Blocks: 1 - frozen section.
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Posterior margin" consists of a piece of muscle measuring 6 x 4x 2mm.  AE for frozen section. 
Blocks: 1 - frozen section.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Vll" consists of a piece of muscle 6 x 4 x 2mm.  AE forfrozen section.  
Blocks: 1 - frozen section.
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Infra temporal fossa" consists of a piece of muscle 10 x 5 x 2mm.  AE for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section.
 
E.Specimen labelled "Deep maseter" consists of a piece of tissue 4 x 2 x 2mm.   AE for frozen section.   
Blocks: 1 - frozen section.  
F.  Specimen labelled "Deep maseter 2" consists of a strip of muscle measuring 10 x 1 x 1mm.  AE for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section.  
G. Specimen labelled "Further deep margin" consists of a piece of muscle measuring 10 x 10 x 6mm.  AE for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section.
H.  Specimen labelled "Level one parotid gland level one" consists of an irregular piece of unorientated fatty tissue measuring 100 x 30 x 15mm.  A nodular area which appears to correspond to the parotid gland measures 40 x 30 x 15mm.  The parotid gland is serially sectioned and macroscopically it appears unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 to 7 - parotid gland AE; 8 - possible lymph node; 9 & 10 - restof fatty tissue.  
I.  Specimen labelled "Parotid gland level 2 & 3" consists of an irregular piece of fatty tissue measuring 35 x 30 x 15mm containing several nodes ranging from 5 to 10mm.  Blocks: 1 to 5 - lymph nodes.  
J.  Specimen labelled "Deep specimen"consists of a fragment of flat bone partly covered by muscle and soft tissue measuring 30mm in length 15mm in maximum diameter.  A piece of muscle and soft tissue attached measures 35 x 20mm.  The soft tissueis peeled from the bone and AE in 3 blocks.  The bone is left in decal for further processing.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - soft tissue.   (VD/ta 7/1/63)
K.  Specimen labelled "Left cheek/parotid tumour short stitch 12 o'clock" consists of an irregular piece ofskin with one suture for the orientation marking the 12 o'clock margin.  It measures 90 x 70 x 30mm.  On the surface of the skin there is a centrally located depressed area 15 x 10mm.The rest of the surface is unremarkable.  The 3 o'clock margin is inked blue.  The 9 o'clock margin is inked black.  On sectioning there is a ill-defined white solid tumour based on the dermis infiltrating the muscle.  It has a maximum thickness of 30mm.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - full TS of tumour; 6 to 8 - full face of TS of tumour; 7 - one LS 12 o'clock margin; 8 - one LS 6 o'clock margin.
L.  Specimen labelled "Ganglion right wrist" consists of a cystic lesion, unorientated 6 x 5 x 5mm.  BAE 1 block.   (TO: AR; PI/rt 7.1.63)
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A to G - Negative for tumour.
Result to Dr ADOLPH RAWICKI by Dr I Babineau and Dr XANDER CRISMAN at 2pm on 4/11/13. 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr I Ciliento)
A.  Sections show fragments of skeletal muscle. There is no evidence of malignancy.
	
B.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
C.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue including some large nerves. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
D.  Sections show mature adipose tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy.
E.  Sections show fragments of skeletal muscle. There is no evidence of malignancy.
F.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue including some admixed skeletal muscle and small calibre nerves. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
G.  Sections show fragments of fibroadipose tissue and skeletal muscle. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
H.  Sections show a mixed serous and mucinous salivary gland, consistent with parotid gland. The normal lobular architecture is preserved. There is patchy mild non-specific chronic inflammation within scattered lobules. No granulomas or pathogenic organisms are seen. A single lymph node shows reactive changes (0/1). There is no evidence of malignancy.  
I.  Sections of the twelve level 2/3 lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/12). 
J.  Sections show mature fibroadipose tissue containing admixed skeletal muscle. There is an 11mm focus of moderately to poorly differentiated infiltrative carcinoma. 
K.  Sections are of skin extending to deep subcutaneous tissue, including salivary gland parenchyma and skeletal muscle at thedeep aspect. There is an extensive moderately to poorly differentiated infiltrative squamous cell carcinoma, which appears to arise from overlying epidermal Bowen's disease. The squamous cell carcinoma infiltrates throughout thedermis into subjacent skeletal muscle and salivary gland tissue, to a maximum depth of invasion of 20mm. There is multifocal perineural invasion. No convincing lymphovascular space invasion is seen. The carcinoma is 10mm from the closestperipheral margin (3 o'clock margin) and is very close to the deep margin (0.25mm) (K7 L2). Bowen's disease appears clear of the margins. The carcinoma shows strong positivity for the keratin stains (AE1/AE3, CK5/6 and Cam5.2) and is negative for S100. A single subcutaneous lymph node shows reactive changes (0/1). The adjacent skin shows an actinic keratosis and seborrheic keratosis.  
L.  Sections show variably dense fibrocollagenous tissue.The tissue shows patchy myxoid and hyaline degenerative type change. Focally, there are scattered cleft like cystic spaces, with variably dense fibrous walls and lined by plump histiocytoid cells. No true epithelial lining is identified.The overall appearance is in keeping with the clinical impression of a ganglion. There is no significant inflammation or evidence of crystal deposition. No pathogenic organisms or well formed granulomas are identified. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Anterior masseter: No evidence of malignancy. 

B.Posterior margin: No evidence of malignancy. 

C.  VII: No evidence of malignancy. 

D.  Infra-temporal fossa: No evidence of malignancy. 

E.  Deep masseter: No evidence of malignancy. 

F.  Deep masseter 2: No evidence of malignancy. 

G.  Further deep margin: No evidence of malignancy. 

H.  Level 1 parotidgland: No evidence of malignancy. A single reactive lymph node is present (0/1). 

I.  Level 2 and 3 parotid gland: No evidence of malignancy in twelve lymph nodes (0/12). 

J.  Deep specimen: Invasive carcinoma present. 

K.  Left cheek/parotid tumour: 
Moderately to poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma arising on a background of Bowen's disease and showing multifocal perineural invasion.
Invasive carcinoma is very close to the deep margin (less than 0.25mm) and is 10mm to the closest peripheral margin (3o'clock).
Bowen's disease is clear of the margins. 
No evidence of malignancy in one sampled lymph node (0/1). 

L.  Lesion, right wrist: Consistent with a ganglion. 


 

