Episode No:  83O2969438
8352969.MKV

MULDOWNEY, JANEY 
Lab No:  83O29694,83O29694
South Concord,
CAMPBELLTOWN  Australian Capital Territory  5491
Specimen: Fluid,Tissue
D.O.B:  1/9/1986
Sex:F
Collected: 13/11/2063 at :
Location:  RHW - DERBY HOSPITAL
DR EVELYNE CASSONDRA NETZ
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Pelvic mass.  Ascites.

MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of one piece of fatty tissue measuring 210 x 130 x 25mm.  Multiple tumour nodules are present measuring up to 80mm in diameter.  
Blocks: 1 - frozen section; 2 and 3 - representative sections (block 3 reserved block)
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Adenocarcinoma.
Phone results to Anaesthetist by Dr. W Mussen at 16:05pm on 11.09.13. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus cervix tubes and ovaries rectal sigmoid colon", consists of a uterus 75 x 40 x 30 mm with ectocervix measuring 30 x 25mm, a segment of large bowel 175mm in length, mesenteric fatty tissue up to 25mm in thickness and a solid tumour mass between the uterus and the large bowel measuring 90 x 80 x 45mm.  The tumour shows extensive necrosis.  The tumour extends into the body of the uterus posteriorly.  The cervix is unremarkable.  The endometrium is less than 1mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is up to 15mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium contains one fibroid 50mm in maximum dimension.  The adnexal sostructures are distorted and the ovaries and the fallopian tubes cannot be identified with certainty.There are fluffy projections on the right adnexal side measuring 35 x 25 x 10mm (?fimbrial end of fallopian tube); these projections are in continuity with the tumour.  The tumour invades through the serosa and into the muscularis propria of the bowel wall.  It involves a 50mm long segment ofthe bowel; it is 120mm from one resection margin of the colon and is very close to the other resection margin.  The tumour does not involve thecolonic mucosa.  The tumour also infiltrates the mesenteric fatty tissue over a broad area.
Blocks: 1 - colon resection margin away from tumour; 2 - the colon resection margin closer to tumour; 3 and 4 - representative of cervix; 5 and 6 - paired sections posterior body of uterus; 7 and 8 - paired sections posterior body of uterusand tumour; 9 - body of uterus with tumour and a fibroid; 10 to 13 - sections of right adnexa; 14 and 15 - sections of tumour on the left adnexal side; 16 - tumour and bowel wall; 17 and 18 - paired sections tumour and bowel wall.
C.  Specimen labelled "Peritoneal implants", consists of multiple nodules with surrounding fatty tissue 100 x 75 x 20mm in aggregate.  The solid nodules comprise approximate 90% of the specimen.
Blocks: 1 - representative tissue.
D.  Specimen labelled "Right diaphragm peritoneal", consists of five fragments of solid tissue 90 x 60 x 30mm in aggregate.  The tissue fragments show extensive involvement by a tan friable tumour.  
Blocks: 1 and 2 - representative sections.
E.  Specimen labelled "Left hemi diaphragm nodule", consists of four fragments of tan/haemorrhagic friable solid tissue 25 x 15 x 15 in aggregate.  AE 1 block. 
F.  Specimen labelled "Descending colon epiploica", consists of a piece of fatty tissue 30 x 15 x 10mm.  There is a tan nodule on the surface of the fatty tissue measuring 10 x 7 x 7mm.
Blocks: 1 - nodule trisected.
G.  Specimen labelled "Proximal donut", consists of a donut shaped piece of tissue bearing colonic mucosa measuring 24 x 15 x 10mm.  Specimen is serially sliced and AE 3 blocks.
H.  Specimen labelled "Distal donut", consists of a donut shaped piece of tissue bearing colonic mucosa measuring 25 x 15 x 8mm.  Specimen is serially sliced and AE 2 blocks.
I.  Specimen labelled "Peritoneal implants", consists of a piece of fibrofattysolid tissue 30 x 15 x 8mm.  On slicing there is a solid nodule with a pale cut surface 22mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks: 1 representative sections.
J.  Specimen labelled "Ileal caecum", consists of terminal ileum 55mm in length, caecum and proximal ascending colon 85mm in length, and pericolic fatty tissue up to 15mm in thickness.  The appendix is notidentified.  There is a flap of peritoneum attached to the serosal surface of caecum 45 x 30 x 4mm.  There are multiple tan and red solid nodules on the peritoneal flap and theserosal surface of the caecum.  The largest serosal nodule is 35 x25 x 15mm and has a necrotic cut surface.  The ileal and colonic mucosae are unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 - ileal resection margin, shaved; 2 - colonic resection margin, shaved; 3 and 4- caecal serosal nodule 5, section of the largest nodule; 6- representative section of one nodule and adjacent colonic mucosa; 7 and 8 - lymph nodes as seen.
(TO: ZM;UQ/vo 15.11.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr W Brescia):
A.   Sections confirm extensive omental involvement by a poorly differentiated carcinoma, most consistent with a poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.
 
B.   Sections of the adnexal mass show a poorly differentiated carcinoma most in keeping with poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.There is prominent patchy tumour necrosis.  No ovary or fallopian tube is identified in the sections from the right adnexa.  In the sections from the left adnexa there is ovary identified andtumour is involving the surface of the ovary rather than the ovary itself.  The left fallopian tube is not identified in the sections.  
 Tumour involves the serosal surface of the posterior cervix but the sections of the cervix are otherwise unremarkable.  Sections of the endometrium show that this is inactive.   A leiomyoma is confirmed in the myometrium.  Sections confirm extensive invasion of posterior myometrium of the body and fundus by tumour.  There is lymphovascular invasion in the myometrium.  
Tumour invades into the muscularis propria and submucosa of the attached colon but the mucosa is intact.  Tumour is present in the bowel wall at one of the bowel resection margins.
C.   Sections show poorly differentiated serous carcinoma. 
D.   Sections show poorly differentiated serous carcinoma. 
E.   Sections show poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.
F.   Sections show poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  
G.  Sections show unremarkable large intestinal wall.  No tumour is seen. 
H.   Sections show unremarkable large intestinal wall.  No tumour is seen. 
I.    Sections show mesothelium with underlying fibrofat.  The mesothelial surface is extensively involved by serous carcinoma.
J.   Sections of the serosal nodules onthe peritoneal flap and on the serosal surface of the caecum and terminal ileum show deposits of poorly differentiated serous carcinoma.  Tumourin one section is seen extending into the outer muscularis propria of the terminal ileum; the submucosa is not involved and the mucosa is intact.  The proximal and distal resection margins are free of tumour.  Sections of six lymph nodes which were found show no tumour involvement.  (ec)  
DIAGNOSIS:
A.   Omentum:   Poorly serous differentiated carcinoma.
B.   Uterus, ovaries, fallopian tubes and rectosigmoid:  Poorly differentiated serous carcinoma involving right ovary, fallopian tubes, surface of left ovary, posterior serosa of uterus and cervix, outer myometrium of posterior body and fundus of uterus, and large bowel wall.
C.   Peritoneal implants:  Serous carcinoma.
D.   Right diaphragm peritoneum:  Serous carcinoma. 
E.   Left hemidiaphragm nodule:  Serous carcinoma.
F.   Descending colon epiploica:  Serous carcinoma.
G.  Proximal donut:  No tumour. 
H.  Distal donut:  No tumour. 
I.    Peritoneal lymph nodes:  Serous carcinoma.  
J.   Terminal ileum and caecum:  Serosal and peritoneal deposits of serous carcinoma. 
 

