
Episode No:  98Q177208T
9861772.BWT

BAKHSHIAN, RYLEE JERRIE 
Lab No:  98Q17720
Isaac Smith
CANBERRA  ACT  3033
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  12/6/2023
Sex:  F
Collected: 28/10/2013 at 15:08
Location:  BRIGHAM & WOMEN'S HOSPITAL - BARWON HEALTH - MCKELLAR CENTRE CAMPUS
DR BARTON EARNEST ROSENHEIM
Distribution:   FILE-COPY, DR Kistle,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY, DR BUD, DR BRODY, DR Vanderwerf

CLINICAL:
Ca cervix.  Lymphoma. 
Note: Confirmed specimen orientation with Dr EFRAIN ALBANEZ on 12/1/63.
Cervix sampled for flow cytometry.
Additional history: Known Grade 1 Follicular lymphoma - on chemotherapy (Dr Shayne). 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes, bilateral ovaries" consists of a uterus with attached bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries and a separate piece of tissue with a smooth surface on one side and a ragged tan surface of the opposite side.  The specimen weighs 180g in total.  The uterus measures 120 x 70 x 45mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The cervix measures 36 x 33mm and hasa ragged surface with a ragged defect at the right lateral aspect measuring 15 x 15 x 15mm.  The anterior surface is inked blue and the posterior black.  The right fallopian tube measures 60mm in length x 7 x 5mm in maximum diameter.  The right ovary measures 27 x 20 x 13mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.  The left fallopian tube measures 58mm in length x 5 x 5mm in maximum dimension.  The left ovary measures 25 x 18 x 10mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.  The separate vaginal cuff and cervix measure 100 x 40 x 25mm.  There is a smooth epithelised surface on one side (vaginal cuff) and a roughened surface on the opposite side (surgical margin).  The true posterior surgical margin is inked red, anterior blue, posterior black. The defect measures approximately 45mm in length.  The separate vaginal cuff fragment is AE.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 4 to10 - (4 & 5, 6 & 7, 8 & 9 paired blocks) left anterior cervix; 11 to 13 - right anterior cervix including defect area; 14 to 16 - full LS of posterior body and cervix; 17 & 18 - right posterior cervix; 19 to 23- left posterior cervix; 24 - right ovary; 25 - right fallopian tube; 26 - left ovary; 27 - left fallopian tube; 28 to 54 - cervical and vaginal fragment AE from anterior right through to posterior right (28 & 29, 38 & 39, 40 & 41, paired blocks).  (Please refer to attached diagram).  (CW/ta 12/1/63) 
 
B.  Specimen labelled "Right obturator lymph node" consistsof three pieces of fatty tissue measuring 55, 55 and 70mm in maximum dimension.  There are lymph nodes identified from 5 to 15mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks:  1 - lymph node; 2 - one lymph node bisected; 3 & 4 - one lymph node serially sectioned.
C.  Specimen labelled "Left obturator lymph node" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 110 x 25 x 10mm.  There are lymph nodes identified from 5 to 30mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks:  1 - lymph node; 2 &3 - one lymph node serially sectioned; 4 - one lymph node serially sectioned.
D.  Specimen labelled "Right external iliac lymph node" consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 25 and 65mm in maximum dimension.  There are lymph nodes identified from 8 to 18mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks:  1 - lymph node; 2 - one lymph node bisected; 3 - ?lymph node.
E.  Specimen labelled "Left external iliac lymph node" consists of three pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 35, 45 and 75mm.  There are lymph nodes identified from 3 to 35mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - lymph node; 4 to 6 - one lymph node serially sectioned.
F.  Specimen labelled "Right common iliac lymph node" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 30mm in maximum dimension.  There are lymph nodes identified from 10 to 14mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks:  1 - one lymph node bisected; 2 - one lymph node bisected, AE.
G.  Specimen labelled "Left common iliac lymph node" consists of one lymph node measuring 50mm in maximum dimension.  AE in 1 block.
H.  Specimen labelled "Right parametrium" consists of three pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 20, 25 and 35mm in maximum dimension.  Lymph nodes are identified in one fragment measuring 5 to 10mm in maximum dimension.  AE.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - fibrofatty tissue; 3 - lymph nodes and fibrofatty tissue.
(TO: XO; FC/rt 12.1.63)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr Y Quimet)
A.   The cervix and vaginal vault have been embedded in their entirety. Sections of the cervical tumour show a poorly differentiated keratinising squamous cell carcinoma in several sections, arising on a background of extensive CIN 3. 
The carcinoma largely effaces the cervical mucosa, has a maximum depth of invasion of 21mm and extends up to 30mm in length along the cervical canal. The carcinoma extends to the ectocervical, peripheral soft tissue margin and shows widespread involvement of the defect (main specimen). CIN3 also extends to the ectocervical margin. There is widespread lymph-vascular space invasion and focal perineural involvement. No convincing glandular dysplasia is identified. 
In the separately received vaginal vault specimen, the superior portion shows extensive involvement by poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. Carcinoma undermines the vaginal epithelium. Carcinoma is up to 22mm in thickness and infiltrates the full thickness of the specimen toinvolve the superior soft tissue (peripheral) margins. Carcinoma is 8mm from the inferior margin. There is focal VAIN 3 which is clear of the margins.
The endometrium is inactive and there is multifocal adenomyosis and endometriosis. The bilateral ovaries and fallopian tube show no significant abnormality. An incidental adrenocortical rest is present adjacent to the left ovary. 
B.  Sections of the six right obturator lymph nodes show no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/6).
C.  Sections of the three left obturator lymph nodes show no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/3). 
D.  Sections of the two right external iliac lymph nodes show no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/2). 
E.  Sections of the ten left external iliac lymph nodes show no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/10).
F.  Sections of the two right common iliac lymph nodes show no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/2).
G.  Sections of the left common iliac lymph node show no evidence of metastatic carcinoma (0/1).
H.  Sections show mature fibroadipose tissue containing scattered blood vessels. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
COMMENT:
The 25 sampled lymph nodes show no evidence of metastatic carcinoma. However, many of the lymphnodes show at least partial effacement by enlarged neoplastic follicles, which consist predominantly of centrocytes. The neoplastic follicles are positive for CD10 and BCL-2; and are negative with T-cell markers (CD3, CD5, CD43) and cyclin D1. The neoplastic lymphoid infiltrate also shows focal extranodal extension. These morphologic and immunohistochemical features are consistent with the history of known low grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of follicular subtype. There is no convincing evidence of high grade (large cell) lymphoma. 
Representative slides seen with Dr CLEMENTE HOLZNER.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.   Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes/ovaries and vaginal vault:
Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix arising on a backgroundof extensive CIN 3.
Carcinoma extends into the cervical wall up to depth of 21mm and extends along the cervical canal up to 30mm. 
Multifocal lymphovascular space invasion and perineural involvement are present. 
Carcinoma is present at the ectocervical margin, peripheral soft tissue margin and shows extensive involvement of the defect seen macroscopically; CIN 3 extends focally to the ectocervical margin.
Additional vaginal vault specimen shows extensive involvement of the superior portion, including the peripheral soft tissue margin, while carcinoma isat least 8mm from the inferior margin. 

B.  Right obturator lymph node: No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in six lymph nodes (0/6). 

C.  Left obturator lymph node: No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in three lymph nodes (0/3). 

D.  Right external iliac lymph node: No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in two lymph nodes (0/2). 

E.  Left external iliac lymph node: No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in ten lymph nodes (0/10). 

F.  Right common iliac lymph node: No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in two lymph nodes (0/2). 

G.  Left common iliac lymph node: No evidence of metastatic carcinoma in one lymph node (0/1). 

H.  Right parametrium: No evidence of malignancy. 

Many of the sampled lymph nodes show features consistent withnon-Hodgkin lymphoma (follicular subtype) - please see comment. 


