
Episode No:  80Q869208A
806869.GAW

CASTELO, RICO 
Lab No:  80Q86920
North Maffei
PARKES  TAS  6505
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  10/5/2003
Sex:  F
Collected: Unknown at :
Location:  PARKES 4 EAST-WAIKERIE HEALTH SERVICES
DR MILLARD NELSON HAZELWOOD
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: EXTERNAL PATHOLOGY REVIEW (22.4.2063)

CLINICAL:
Rt thyroid nodule - Atypical on FNA.  Rt hemithyroid for frozen section.  - ?Ca.  Partial gastrectomy (2028).  Steatohepatitis + jaundice + SB fistula -> Reversal of bilio-pancreatic bypass (2060).  Asthma.  Sacral wound.  Lt thyroid lobe.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right hemithyroid" consists of a right hemithyroid 70 x 50 x 25mm.  Anterior margin inked blue, posterior margin black.  The right lobule is replaced by a largenodule with solid pink and glistening appearance with areas of calcification.  One representative section for frozen section.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section; 2 to 12 - nodule embedded from superior to inferior (the capsule has been almost AE); 13 - normal looking thyroid, 14 to 23 - rest of tissue embedded. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Left thyroid" consists of a left hemithyroid weighing 21g and measuring 55 x 20 x 20mm.  It has a multinodular appearance.  External surface is unremarkable.  Anterior margin inked blue, tracheal margin black.  On sectioning it has a multinodular appearance with calcified areas and cystic areas.  Representative sections taken.
Blocks:  1 & 2 - representative sections upper pole; 3 & 4 - representative mid pole; 5 - representative mid pole; 6 & 7 - inferior pole 8 to 13 - rest of tissue embedded.
(FJ/bl 3/3/63)
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A.  Follicular nodule, no evidence of malignancy on frozen section.
Result to anaesthetists by Dr W Kilkus at 12:36pm on 3/2/2063.
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr W Lantier - 4.6.2063)
A.  Sections of thyroid show changes of multinodular goitre, including colloid filled follicles of varying size with nodule formation, fibrosis, haemosiderin laden histiocytes, calcification and scattered foci of lymphocytic thyroiditis. The nodule identified macroscopically is a partially encapsulated hyperplastic follicular (adenomatoid) nodule, which shows a mixed macrofollicular and microfollicular architecture. Focally, the capsule of the adenomatoid nodule is thickened by a 4.8mm papillary thyroid microcarcinoma (follicular variant), which is 1.1mm from the surgical margin. No convincing lymphovascular space invasion is seen.
B.  Sections of thyroid show changesof multinodular goitre, including colloid filled follicles of varying size, nodule formation, fibrosis, haemosiderin laden histiocytes, calcification, osseous metaplasia and scattered foci of lymphocytic thyroiditis. Numerous hyperplasticfollicular (adenomatoid) nodules are present. There is also a 16mm partially encapsulated nodule with a mixed microfollicular and macrofollicular architecture (blocks B4 - B6). Some of the microfollicles within this nodule showatypical features, including nuclear enlargement, nuclear membrane irregularity, nuclear grooves and inclusions. The nodule extends focally to less than 0.56mm of the surgical margin. 
COMMENT:
The 16mm left thyroid nodule is an atypical follicular nodule with a mixed microfollicular and macrofollicular architecture. The nodule shows patchy nuclear changes which raise the possibility of papillary thyroid carcinoma. However, the slides have been reviewed within this department and there are differing opinions as to the significanceof these nuclear changes. Therefore, the slides will be sent to A/Professor Devenuto at ELLISTON HOSPITAL Hospital for his opinion and a supplementary report will be issued. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right hemithyroid:
Multinodular goitre and focal lymphocytic thyroiditis.
Dominant hyperplastic follicular (adenomatoid) nodule.
4.8mm papillary thyroid microcarcinoma (follicular variant), 1.1mm to the surgical margin.

B.  Left hemithyroid: 
Multinodular goitre and focal lymphocytic thyroiditis.
Numerous hyperplastic follicular (adenomatoid) nodules.
16mm atypical follicular nodule with patchy nuclear features raising the possibility of papillary thyroid carcinoma.

Slides will be sent to A/Professor Sluski for his opinion and a supplementary report will be issued. 


***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: EXTERNAL PATHOLOGY REVIEW (22.4.2063)
Sections were sent to A/Professor EDGAR BUENDIA, Anatomical, MACKAY BASE HOSPITAL Hospital, for opinion and he reports as follows:


