 0185885.KUO
IIDA, VALENTIN
01V58853

Last edited : 18/6/2063		Page: 2
***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: HER-2 CISH (17.6.2063)

CLINICAL:
Right breast cancer.  Sentinel node biopsy +/- axillary clearance.  Axillary node mapped on lymph scintigraphy.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right axilla sentinel node x 2" consists of an irregular piece of fatty tissue 28 x 20 x 5mm containing two lymph nodes.  One lymph node 5mm taken for imprint #1.  Second lymph node 25mm in imprints 2 & 3.  No malignant cells seen.  
Blocks: 1 - imprint node one; 2 - imprint two; 3 - imprint three.  All lymph node tissue embedded in 3 blocks.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Right breast short superior, long lateral, loop nipple" consists of a subcutaneous mastectomy specimen measuring 155mm (medial to lateral) x 155mm (superior to inferior) x 50mm (superficial to deep).  There is no overlying skin included in the specimen.  Superficial margin inked blue, deep margin black, lateral margin green, superior margin red.  The cut surface reveals a pink relatively wellcircumscribed tumour at the 6 o'clock position measuring 13 x 15 x 16mm.  The tumour is 1.5cm from the marked nipple position.  No definite lesion is found in the 4 o'clock position although there are several areas which appear slightly rubbery/nodular in slices two, three and four which may correspond to the 4 o'clock lesion.  
Blocks: 1 - tumour with superficial margin; 2 to 4 - tumour with superficial and deep margin; 5 & 6 - (composite blocks) fibrous/ nodular area in slice three; 7 & 8 - further fibrous/nodular appearing areas; 9 & 10 - (composite blocks) further nodular area; 11 & 12 - (composite blocks) area marked as nipple; 13 & 14 - representative upper inner quadrant; 15 - representative lower inner quadrant; 16 & 17 - (composite blocks) further slice lower inner quadrant; 18 - representative upper outer quadrant; 19 - representative upper outer quadrant (superior margin of the tumour); 20 - representative lower outer quadrant (inferior margin of tumour); 21 - further representative lower outer quadrant.  
Please refer to attached diagram.  (GK/ta 23/5/63)
C.  Specimen labelled "Left breast lesion, long lateral, short superior, medium medial" consists of a hookwire excision of breast measuring 25mm (medial to lateral) x 35mm (superior to inferior) x 28mm (superficial to deep).  Superior inked blue, superficial inked green and deep inked black.  There is a hookwire in situ which enters onthe superficial aspect and exits the breast on the deep aspect and runs the full length of the breast specimen.  The deep aspect contains a cream fibrous area which is firm and rubbery to palpate.  The cut surface is cream and smooth.  Specimen is serially sectioned and AE 18 blocks.  Please refer to attached diagram.  
(RV/mm 24.5.63) 
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A.  Sentinel node imprint cytology:  No tumour seen.  
Result to Dr Tuxhorn by Dr B Seppelt at 5.20pmon 21/3/13.
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr B Hylton - 28.5.2063)
A.  One of two sentinel lymph nodes shows a single isolated tumour cell on immunohistochemistry only (1/2). A synoptic report for sentinel lymph nodes follows:
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR SENTINEL LYMPHNODES 
No. of sentinel lymph nodes examined: Two.
No. of sentinel nodes involved by tumour: One (1/2).
No. of sentinel nodes with metastases >2.0mm: None.
No. of sentinel nodes with metastases <2.0mm: None.
No. of sentinel nodes with isolated tumour cells <0.2mm: One isolated tumour cell is present on IHC only. 
Extranodal spread: Not identified.
B.  The right breast tumour is a Grade 3 invasive ductal carcinoma arising on a background of multifocal high grade DCIS. A synoptic report for invasive breast carcinoma follows:
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR INVASIVE BREAST CARCINOMA
Invasive carcinoma:
Site: Right breast (mastectomy). 
Type: Invasive ductal carcinoma, NOS.
Invasive tumour size: 16mm (macroscopic).
Grade: 3 (Modified Bloom & Richardson)       
Tubules: 2 Nuclei: 3 Mitoses: 3 Mitotic rate: 25/10hpf.
Lymphovascular invasion: Foci suspicious for LVI are present. 
Perineural invasion: Present. 

DCIS component:  : Present. 
Maximum extent of DCIS: DCIS is present in association with invasive carcinoma, as well as, in surrounding breast tissue, over an approximate maximum extent of 20mm.
Nuclear grade: High grade.
Architecture: Solid.
Necrosis: Not identified. 
Calcification: Not identified. 
Degree of DCIS in tumour: <25%.
DCIS in adjacent tissue: Present.
Excision Margins:  
Invasive component:
Superficial margin: 2.0mm (block B1)
Deep margin: 5.5mm (block B2)
Inferior, superior, medial and lateral margins: Clear of tumour.
In-situ component:
Deep margin: 0.56mm (block B2).
Superficial margin: 5.5mm (block B2).
Inferior, superior, medial and lateral margins: Clear of tumour.
Receptors: 
ER:   POSITIVE
	90% of nuclei stained
	Predominant intensity of staining: Strong.
PR:   POSITIVE
	90% of nuclei stained
	Predominant intensity of staining: Strong.
HER2 (Novocastra 10A7): Positive (3+).
Ki-67 immunoproliferative index: Variable, up to 75% of tumour cell nuclei positive. 

Nipple: Not included. 
LCIS / ALH: Not identified. 
Miscellaneous: The adjacent non-neoplastic breast tissue shows columnar cell change/hyperplasia, pseudo-angiomatous hyperplasia, patchy mild periductal chronic inflammation, epithelial hyperplasia, apocrine metaplasia, sclerosing adenosis and papillary apocrine hyperplasia. Changes consistent with previous biopsy are present. An incidental 8.0mm fibroadenoma is identified. 
Axillary lymph nodes: 
No of axillary lymph nodes present for assessment: One.
Number of axillary lymph nodes involved: None.
Lymph node total (Specimens A and B):
Total number of lymph nodes examined (including sentinel node(s)): Three.
Total number of involved lymph nodes (including sentinel node(s)): One (ITC) (1/3).
C.  The left breast lesion is a circumscribed, unencapsulated fibroadenoma. The fibroadenoma is present at the medial aspect of the specimen and is composed of benign ducts showing a mixed pericanalicular and intracanalicular pattern and surrounded by variably sclerotic fibrous stroma. The fibroadenoma shows no atypical features and there is no evidence of a Phyllodes tumour. Changes consistent with previous biopsy site are present. The adjacent breast tissue shows pseudo-angiomatous hyperplasia, periductal lymphocytic inflammation suggestive of diabetic mastopathy, columnar cell change/hyperplasia, apocrine metaplasia and numerous ectatic ducts. There is a single focus of atypical ductal hyperplasia, which appears clear of margins (>5.0mm) (block C10). There is no convincing DCIS or evidence of invasive malignancy. The margins of excision are as follows:
Margins of excision of fibroadenoma:
Medial margin: Present at inked margin.
Superior margin: 0.25mm.
Superficial margin: 0.56mm.
Inferior margin: 0.56mm.
Deep and lateral margins: Margin appears clear.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right axillary sentinel lymph nodes (x2): One of two sentinel lymph nodes shows a single isolated tumour cell with immunohistochemistry (1/2).

B.  Right breast: 16mm Grade 3 invasive ductal carcinoma associated with multifocal high grade solid DCIS. Carcinoma appears clear of margins. DCIS is 0.56mm to the closest (deep) margin. ER, PR and HER 2 are positive. One axillary lymph node is present and shows no evidence of malignancy (0/1). 

C.  Left breast lesion: Fibroadenoma, present at medial margin (close to superior, superficial and inferior margins). There is a single focus of atypical ductal hyperplasia (clear of margins). No evidence of DCIS or invasive carcinoma. 

Her-2 CISH is being performed and a supplementary report will be issued. 


***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: HER-2 CISH (17.6.2063)
HER2 IN SITU HYBRIDISATION reported by Dr B Applebaum, CESSNOCK DISTRICT HOSPITAL Hospital:
HER2 IHC Result:  3+

Signal Detection has been performed for the HER2 gene (17q21) and chromosome 17 centromeric enumeration probe (CEP17) control using the Ventana INFORM HER2 DUAL ISH DNA Probe Cocktail Assay (Roche).
HER2 Dual ISH result:	POSITIVE (amplified)

Mean HER2 copy number per cell:  12.7 
Mean CEP 17copy number per cell:  1.9 
HER2/CEP17 Ratio: 6.68
SCORING CRITERIA (ASCO/CAP recommendations): 
Negative: HER2/CEPI7 < 1.8
Equivocal: HER2/CEPI7 = 1.8-2.2
Positive:  HER2/CEP17 >2.2

