
Episode No:  54J548746B
5435487.MRB

BILLEY, SUSANA JEANNETTE 
Lab No:  54J54874
Takolusa
MADDINGLEY  Australian Capital Territory  2730
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  3/10/2007
Sex:  F
Collected: 08/04/2013 at 16:39
Location:  Laverty - GOULBURN BASE HOSPITAL
DR ARMINDA JUDITH VASTARDIS
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: EXTERNAL PATHOLOGY REVIEW (18.6.63)

CLINICAL:
VIN3, SCC of vulva.  Anterior vulvectomy, clitoridectomy, bilateral groin node dissection.  Right posterior perianal lesion.  Right vaginal fourchette lesion.  Left anterior vulval skin lesion.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Anterior vulva" consists of a vulvectomy specimen 70 x 40 x 12mm.  A discrete lesion is not identified.  The anterior half is inked blue and the posterior half is inked black.  The specimen is serially sliced and AE from left to right into twenty-four blocks.  Please refer to attached diagram.
B.  Specimen labelled "Left medial inguinal node" consists of fragments of fibrofatty tissue 100 x 40 x 30mm in aggregate.  There are four lymph nodes, the largest being 30mm in maximum dimension.  The largest lymph node has an indurated cut surface.  
Blocks:  1 - one bisected lymph node; 2 - one lymph node; 3 - one trisected lymph node; 4 - representative from largest indurated lymph node.
C.  Specimen labelled "Left lateral inguinal" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue 75 x 20 x 15mm.  There are two lymph nodes 35 and 15mm in maximum dimension.
Blocks:  1 -one lymph node trisected; 2 - one lymph node trisected.
D.  Specimen labelled "Right femoral node" consists of fragments of fatty tissue 40 x 30 x 15mm in aggregate.
Blocks:  1 - one bisected lymph node.
E.Specimen labelled "Right lateral inguinal node" consists of a piece of fatty tissue 60 x 35 x 7mm.  There are two lymph nodes.
Blocks:  1 - one bisected lymph node; 2 - one bisected lymph node.
F.  Specimen labelled "Right medial inguinal node" consists of fibrofatty tissue 75 x 45 x 25mm.  There are several lymph nodes.
Blocks:  1 - one bisected lymph node; 2 - one lymph node; 3 - one bisected lymph node; 4 - one trisected lymph node; 5 & 6 - one lymph node; 7 - one bisected lymph node.
G.  Specimen labelled "Left anterior vulval lesion" consists of a skin ellipse 25 x 15 x 6mm.  Centrally there is a light brown macule 7mm in maximum dimension.  There is a suture at one edge with no corresponding information.  The suture is taken as 12 o'clock.  3 o'clock is inked black and 9 o'clock is inked blue.  The specimen is serially sliced from 3 to 9 o'clock and sequentially blocked in blocks 1 to 5 from 12 to 6o'clock.  Please see attached diagram.
H.  Specimen labelled "Left femoral node" consists of a piece of fatty tissue 40 x 20 x 7mm.  No lymph nodes are identified.  AE two blocks. 
I.  Specimen labelled "12 o'clockstitch right posterior perianal lesion" consists of an elliptical skin excision 20 x 10 x 5mm.  Centrally there is a brown plaque 7mm in maximum dimension.  There is a suture designated as 12 o'clock.  3 o'clock is inked black and 9 o'clock is inked blue.  The specimen is sliced in the 3 to 9 o'clock plane and sequentially blocked from 12 to 6 o'clock in four blocks.  AE.  Please refer to attached diagram.
J.  Specimen labelled "Right anterior vaginal fourchette lesion" consists of an unorientated skin ellipse 23 x 7 x 3mm.  There is a 4mm tan nodule on the skin surface slightly off centre.  The specimen is serially sliced.
Blocks:  1 - one end enface; 2 & 3 - transverse sections (lesionin block 3); 4 - opposite end enface, end closer to lesion.  AE.   (YD/cc 6/11/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr O Sowl - 6.12.2063)
A.  Sections are of skin extending to subcutis. There is an area of dermocutaneous scarring associated with dermal oedema and scattered reactive pigmented histiocytes. The overlying epidermis and some of the adnexal structures show mild reactive change. There is no convincing residual VIN orevidence of invasive carcinoma. 
B.  The four left medial inguinal lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/4). 
C.  The two left lateral inguinal lymphnodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/2). 
D.  Theright femoral lymph node shows no evidence of malignancy (0/1). 
E.  The two right lateral inguinal lymph nodes show no evidenceof malignancy (0/2). 
F.  The seven right medial inguinal lymph nodesshow no evidence of malignancy (0/7).
G.  Sections are of skin extending to subcutis and showing an atypical melanocytic lesion. Mild to moderately atypical naevus cells are arranged in prominent junctional nests and show epidermal lentiginous spread. No Pagetoid or upward extension of melanocytes is seen. There is prominent subepidermal fibrosis. The dermis contains numerous dermal nests and sheets of epithelioid to naevoid naevus cells, which appear to show some cytologic maturation towards the base of the lesion. A single mitosis is noted, but appears to be within an endothelial cell. The naevus is 1.6mm from the 3 o'clock margin and 4.4mm from the deep margin. The overall features are those of an atypical vulval melanocytic lesion, favour an atypical genital naevus. 
H.  Sections show fragments of mature fibroadipose tissue. No lymph node tissue present for assessment.
I.  Sections show a seborrheic keratosis. There is no significant cytologic atypia or increase in mitotic activity. The lesion extends focally to the biopsy edge. There is no evidence of AIN or malignancy. 
J.  Sections show a seborrheic keratosis. There is no significant cytologic atypia or increase in mitotic activity. The lesion extends focally to the biopsy edge. There is no evidence of VIN or malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Anterior vulva: Dermocutaneous scar and reactive changes. No evidence of residual VIN or invasive carcinoma. 

B.  Left medial inguinal lymph node: No evidence of malignancy in four lymph nodes (0/4). 

C.  Left lateral inguinal lymph node: No evidence of malignancy in two lymph nodes (0/2). 

D.  Right femoral lymph node: No evidence of malignancy in one lymph node (0/1). 

E.  Right lateral inguinal lymph node: No evidence of malignancy in two lymph nodes (0/2). 

F.  Right medial inguinal lymph node: No evidence of malignancy in seven lymph nodes (0/7). 

G.  Left anterior vulval lesion: Melanocytic vulval lesion, favour atypical genital naevus. Margins appear clear. This lesion shows some atypical features and will be sent to Professor Freeburg at RPA for his expert opinion. 

H.  Left femoral lymph node: Mature fibroadipose tissue. No lymph node tissue present for assessment.

I.  Perianal lesion: Seborrheic keratosis. 

J.  Right anterior vaginal fourchette lesion: Irritated seborrheic keratosis. 
Representative slides seen with Dr O Bleakley and Dr O Statler.

The left anterior vulval lesion is being sent to Professor Gonce at RPA for his expert opinion and a supplementary report will be issued. 


***SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT: EXTERNAL PATHOLOGY REVIEW (18.6.63)
Professor Calvani, TUMUT DISTRICT HOSPITAL hospital reports (specimen G):
"Microscopic report:
I think the pattern of this genital naevus is that of a traumatized/regenerating dysplastic compound naevus with mild to moderate cytological atypia. There is patchy mild superficial dermal fibrosis with focal loss of rete ridges.  The lesion appears completely excised.  No convincing evidence of malignancy found. 
Summary:
G.  Skin, left anterior vulva:  Favour traumatised/regenerating genital naevus". 



