 741756.BUW
MCCHESNEY, ORVAL
74E75607

Last edited : 2/12/2063		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Ultra low anterior resection for rectal Cancer.  Prostate Ca.(recent radical OT), rectal Ca, HTN, DM, gout.  Right hemicolectomy - proximal transverse colon lesion. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy", consists of a segment of bowel comprising of terminal ileum, caecum, ascending colon and proximal part of transverse colon.  The terminal ileum measures 75mm in length and 25mm in diameter.The terminal ileum is unremarkable.  The caecum and rest of colon measure 220mm in length and 78mm in open diameter.  The attached appendix measures 60mm in length and 10mm in diameter.  The appendix is unremarkable.  The serosal surface of colon isunremarkable.  Within the transverse colon, there is a large tan exophytic polyp measuring 45 x 35 x 20mm.  The lesion is 20mm from the distal surgical margin.  The rest of colon shows two small polyps measuring 8mm and 10mm in diameter.  
Blocks: 1 - proximal margin; 2 - distal margin; 3 - two small polyps; 4 to 10 - large polyp (6 and 7 show closest distal margin); 11 - normal bowel; 12 - appendix; 13 - apical lymph nodes; 14 to 19 - lymph nodes.
B.  Specimen labelled "Ultra low anterior resection", consists of a segment of large bowel comprising of sigmoid colon and rectum.  It measures 300mm in length and 50mm in open diameter.  The peritoneal reflection is 70mm above the distal surgical margin.  There is a pedunculated tan polypoid lesion within the rectum measuring 45 x 35 x 35mm.  The lesion is 5mm from the distal surgical margin.  The tumour is 55mm below the anterior peritoneal reflection and is 20mm from the radial margin.  There are two small polyps found within the rest of bowel mucosa measuring 3mm and 5mm in maximum dimension.  No other focal lesions are seen.
Blocks: 1 - proximal surgical margin; 2 - small polyps; 3 - distal surgical margin; 4 to 11 - large polyp (block 4 and 6 with closest distal margin); 12 - representative normal bowel; 13 to 16 - ?lymph nodes below peritoneal reflection; 17 - apical lymph node; 18 to 25 - lymph nodes above peritoneal reflection.
(HW/vo 2.8.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr U Egerton):
A.  Sections show a large tubulovillous adenoma with focal high grade dysplasia.  There is no evidence of invasive malignancy.  The lesion is completely excised and the resection margins are clear.  The smaller colonic polyps are tubular adenomas with low grade dysplasia.  The appendix is unremarkable.  Nine (9) lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of tumour metastasis.  
B.  Synoptic Report for Colorectal Carcinoma
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:  Rectum
Maximum tumour diameter:  45mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  5mm
Tumour perforation:  No
For rectal tumours
Relation of tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection:	  Below
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma, NOS
Differentiation by predominantarea
Well
Local invasion
pTis		Intraepithelial or intramucosal
Tumour involvementof margins
Cut ends:  Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not involved
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  20mm
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present:  7
Number of lymph nodes involved:  0
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
The intraepithelial adenocarcinoma arises within the background of a large tubulovillous adenoma.
	The adenocarcinoma is confined within the mucosa and no submucosal invasion is seen.
	The two smaller polyps are tubular adenomas with low grade dysplasia.

