Episode No:  90U891312J
9078913.CFJ

HUBBY, TUAN 
Lab No:  90U89131
Sandal
CLARE  Tasmania  6983
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  18/10/2001
Sex:  M
Collected: Unknown at :
Location:  Envoi pathology-EXMOUTH HOSPITAL
DR MILOVAN ISMAEL YGLESIAS
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Right hepatectomy.  Open cholecystectomy.  Adjuvant chemotherapy.  Post hemicolectomy.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right hemi hepatectomy ", consists of hemi-hepatectomy measuring 115 x 115 x 48mm.  There is a roughened area (surgical) inked black over an area of 110 x 110mm. The hepatic capsule is in tact.  There is a pale tan tumour which abuts the capsule of the liver and measures 20 x 20 x 14mm.  The tumour has a firm nodular appearance and is 2mm from the closes surgical margin (black).  
Blocks: 1 and 2 - paired blocks closest surgical margin and capsule: 3 and 4 - tumour; 5 - normal liver parenchyma away from tumour.   
B.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder", consists of a gallbladder measuring 65mm in length x 25 x 20mm in maximum diameter.  The serosal surface is smooth and shiny.  The wall thickness is 3mm.  The mucosal surface is dark green and velvety.  There are no polyps or ulcerations seen.  There are no gallstones received with the gallbladder.  
Blocks: 1 - surgical margin (neck); 2 - body; 3 - fundus. 
(UO/vo10.7.63)
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr X Pentico)
A.  Sections of liver show a 20mm deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma. The tumour deposit shows extensive treatment related necrosis (>95% of tumour necrotic) with surrounding fibrosis and a foreign body type granulomatous reaction. Only very occasional residual malignant glands are seen at the periphery of the tumour deposit. The fibrous capsule of the tumour deposit focally abuts the hepatic capsule, which shows reactive thickening, but no viable tumour involvement of the hepatic capsule is seen. Viable carcinoma is seen 5.5mm from the resection margin, while the tumour fibrous capsule itself extends to within 1.5mm of the margin. The adjacent liver shows patchy mild chronic inflammation and macrovesicular steatosis. Immunohistochemicalstains were performed and the adenocarcinoma is positive for CK20 and negative for CK7, TTf-1 and hepar-1. The morphology and pattern of immunohistochemical staining would be consistent with primary colorectal origin.
B.  Sections of gallbladder show chronic cholecystitis. The gallbladder wall shows fibromuscular hyperplasia, Rokitansky Aschoff sinus formation and patchy mild chronic inflammation. There are no unusual features. A single pericholecystic lymph node shows reactive changes (0/1). There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right hemihepatectomy: 20mm deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma showing extensive treatment related necrosis (>95% of tumour necrotic).  

B.  Gallbladder: Chronic cholecystitis.





