
 376710.MBM
MOBILIA, RAMIRO MARTY
37P71040

Last edited : 13/7/2062		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Haemoptysis (R) lower lobe.  (R) lower lobectomy ?endobronchial tumour.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right lower lobe" consists of a lobectomy, measuring 135 x 115 x 92mm and weighing 209g in fresh state.  There is an endobronchial polypoid mass, measuring 20 x 18 x 12mm.  The lesion lies 5mm from bronchial resection margin.  The pleural surface overlying the tumoral area appears slightly ragged but no definite tumour deposits are identified.The rest of lung tissue is unremarkable.  Sequential sectioning shows no other tumours.  There is patchy anthracosis.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - tumour with bronchial margin; 3 - tumour (tumour entirely embedded); 4 - shave of remaining bronchial margin and vascular margin; 5 - two nodes; 6 - one node; 7 - tissue distal to tumour; 8 - lung mid aspect; 9 - shave of tumour for tissue bank.    

B.  Specimen labelled "Hilar lymph node" consists of an irregular shaped dark brown lymph node 20 x 10 x 7mm.  AE 2 blocks.    (ML/ta 11/7/62) 
  
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr I Motl):  
A.  Sections show an endobronchial polypoid tumour.The tumour comprises predominantly of oncocytic cells with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm.  The nuclei are small with vesicular chromatin and inconspicuous nucleoli.  The tumour cells are arranged in either organoid or trabecular patterns.  No mitoses are seen.  There are no atypical features.  The tumour cells are positive for MNF-116, Chromogranin, Synaptophysin and CD56.  The stain for TTF-1 is negative.  The Ki-67 proliferation index is zero.  The appearances are those of typical carcinoid tumour.  The tumour is completely excised and the resection bronchial margin is clear.  The rest of lung tissue is unremarkable.  Three hilar lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes show marked anthracosis.  There is no evidence of tumour metastasis.
B.  One lymphnode is identified.  The lymph node shows marked anthracosis.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right lower lobe - Typical carcinoid tumour.
B.  Hilar lymph node - Anthracosis.

