SPR no: 96L901838I
MRN no: 96490183
Site_name: MIDLANDS MULTI PURPOSE HEALTH CENTRE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report96L90183 (96L901838I) VESTERING, LEIF  HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:
HISTORY:
Base of the appendix cancer, previous right hemicolectomy - peritonectomy.
Spleen, tail of pancreas, gallbladder, redo right colon resection. Rectum resection, small bowel, hepatic artery lymph nodes, peritoneum.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  &amp;quot;SPLEEN, GALLBLADDER, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY, SIGMOID COLON, DISTAL PANCREAS&amp;quot;.  Specimen consists of gallbladder, spleen, partial pancreatectomy, a segment of small bowel, segment of small bowel anastomosed to large bowel consistent with radial right colon resection. This has attached fatty tissue consistent with omentum, all cakes with mucinous deposit of tumour.  A segment of large bowel consistent with sigmoid colon and a segment of large bowel consistent with rectum and separately multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissue consistent with peritoneum.
- Gallbladder - Consists of intact gallbladder measuring 120mm in length x 50mm maximum diameter. The serosal surface shows multiple nodular areas consistent with deposits of tumour. Also noted at the neck of gallbladder is a 10mm lymph node. The wall of the gallbladder is up to 20mm thick and on sectioning shows a mucinous deposit of tumour. The mucosa is granular green with strips of cholesterolosis.  Within the lumen are multiple stones ranging from 15-25mm. (1 neck of gallbladder lymph node; 2 cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 3 body; 4 fundus [3 and 4 shows mucinous deposits of tumour])
- Spleen weitht 349 g and it measures 170x80x50mm.  The capsule shows nodular tan areas.  On sectioning through these areas shows a mucinous cut surface.  The splenic parenchyma is red and spongy.  No discrete lesions are identified. (5&amp;amp;6 RS of spleen)
- Partial pancreatectomy - It measures 70x60x20mm.  The surface shows areas of adhesion.  On sectioning the cut surface is unremarkable.   (17&amp;amp;8 RS of pancreas)
- Segment of small bowel - It measures 930g x maximum diameter of 30mm. The msentery is up to 90mm wide. The serosal surface shows multiple nodular deposits of tumour. This is also noted within the mesentery. The mucosa is otherwise unremarkable.  Loops are noted on the serosa roughened areas consistent with areas of ? adhesions.   (9 area of adhesion; 10 nodules on serosa; 11 sections through mesentery involved by tumour)
- Segment of small bowel anastomosed to large bowel - The small bowel segment measures 260mm in length x 30mm anastomosed.  Large bowel measures 260mm in length with a maximum diameter 60mm.  Attached to this is fatty tissue caked with tumour consistent with omentum.  It measures 550x130x40mm.  This segment of small bowel is adherent to itself. The serosal surface shows multiple nodular deposits of tumour. Within the lumen it is unremarkable. (12 small bowel with serosal nodule; 13 site of small bowel adhesions; 14 anastomotic site; 15 large bowel with tumour deposit on serosa; 16 caked omentum).
- Segment of large bowel consistent with sigmoid colon measures 160mm in length with a maximum diameter of 50mm.  On the serosal surface are multiple nodular deposits of tumour. The mucosa shows flattening of the mucosal fold.  Also noted within the attached mesocolic fat are mucinous deposits of tumour. The mesocolic fat is up to 90mm wide.
(17&amp;amp;18 sections of large bowel consistent with sigmoid colon)
- Segment of large bowel consistent with rectum.  It measures 165mm in  length with a maximum diameter of 20mm.  On the serosa and surrounding mesocolic fat are nodular deposits of mucinous tumour. The mucosa is otherwise unremarkable. (19 RS of large bowel mucosa consistent with rectum)
- Separate pieces of fibrofatty tissue consistent with peritoneum altogether it measures 240x200x60mm.  There is nodular deposit of tumour on the surface.   (20 segment of tissue consistent with peritoneum; 21 tumour block taken from omental cake). RS (M-21).
Further tissue:
(22-28 lymph nodes from small bowel mesentery [22 one lymph node bisected, 23-26 six lymph nodes each, 27&amp;amp;28 five lymph nodes each]; 29-31 lymph nodes from mesocolic fat of redo right colon [29 six nodes, 30 three nodes, 31 five nodes]; 32 nodes from mesorectum [three nodes]).  RS (M-32/MC/nh).
B.  &amp;quot;HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH NODE&amp;quot;.  A piece of brown tissue.  It measures 30x20x6mm.  Sectioned into five transverse slices.  AE (M-2/MC/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:
A. The peritoneal mucinous tumour deposits in the setting of a known appendiceal mucinous adenocarcinoma are classified as high grade mucinous carcinoma peritonei / PMCA (peritoneal mucinous carcinomatosis) (equivalent to AJCC moderately differentiated, high grade mucinous, G2). There are single tumour cells present but few if any signet ring cells are seen.
The mucinous  carcinoma deposits are cellular.
Some nonmucinous conventional adenocarcinoma areas are present.
INVASION:
- Most of the peritoneal deposits have an invasive pattern of growth with small mucin cluster and single cell pattern.
- The deepest detected invasion is into the external layers of musclularis propria of colon.
INVOLVED ORGANS:
Mucinous tumour involves peritoneal surface and subserosa and muscularis of colon, peritoneal surface and subserosa small bowel, gallbladder surface , spleen surface, mesentery, omentum, peritoneum,  and abdominal wall.
Other:
There is chronic cholecystitis and calculi.
The spleen parenchyma and pancreas parenchyma are unremarkable.
Ancillary tests:
MMRP immunostains:  Not done: See previous DHM report (MMRP profient tumour, normal staining reported)
B. The hepatic artery node is negative for tumour (0/1).
DIAGNOSIS:
A. PERITONEAL MUCINOUS TUMOUR RESECTION/PERITONECTOMY:
- (metastatic) high grade mucinous carcinoma peritonei / PMCA (peritoneal mucinous carcinomatosis);  (equivalent to AJCC moderately differentiated, high grade mucinous, G2).
- lymph nodes sampled are negative but identification of lymph nodes very difficult in view of extensive peritoneal/mesenteric metastases.

B. HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH NODE:
- Negative for tumour.
