SPR no: 49X211393N
MRN no: 49921139
Site_name: BELLINGER RIVER DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report49X21139 (49X211393N) ERNZEN, SIMON ERWIN

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Peritonectomy CRC, sigmoid/rectum/uterus, small bowel resection X2.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;SIGMOID, RECTUM, UTERUS, SMALL BOWEL RESECTION&amp;quot;.  Multiple tissue fragments including:

En-block segment of rectosigmoid bowel with attached uterus.  The uterus measures 75x55x35mm.  The cervix measures 30x25x25mm.  The rectosigmoid segment measures 230mm in length and up to 45mm in diameter.  The distal 80mm of the specimen is below peritoneal reflection.  Mesocolon and mesorectum are attached along the specimen to a width of 45mm.  The serosal surface has multiple adhesions with extensive involvement of the peritoneal strips with firm, white deposit.  A tumour is identified at the level of the peritoneal reflection posteriorly, measuring 35x30mm with raised edges and central ulceration extensively infiltrating into the adjacent fatty tissue and is located 70mm of distal, 140mm of proximal margin.  No polyps are seen in the colon.

Upon opening the endometrium is unremarkable and up 3 mm thick, the myometrium is up to 18 mm thick. The uterine adnexal structures are not clearly identified but the tumour appears to be involving the serosal surface of the uterus.  There is an extensive involvement of the adipose tissue and the tumour is approaching the overlying serosa.

(1  proximal margin; 2  distal margin; 3  peritoneal involvement; 4  distant serosal involvement; 5-10  full face of the uterus [5-7  anterior uterus from cervix to fundus, 8-10  posterior fundus from cervix to fundus]; 11-13  tumour edge with fat involvement; 14  tumour with most distal bowel segment involvement; 15&amp;amp;16  right adnexal region; 17&amp;amp;18  left adnexal region; 19  uterus serosal involvement; 20&amp;amp;21  each ?five lymph nodes).

Received a segment of small bowel measuring 70mm in length and up to 40mm in diameter with attached mesentery up to 15mm.  There is a central ulcerated lesion measuring 30x15mm with raised edges, invading the underlying fatty tissue to approach the overlying serosa.  There is a stricture and kinking of the overlying serosa.

(22&amp;amp;23  tumour with kinked overlying serosal involvement with block 23 tumour block for tissue banking; 24  tumour into mesentery and overlying serosa).

Received a segment of small bowel measuring 220mm with mesentery up to 45mm.  The overlying serosa is extensively ragged, haemorrhagic and nodular with multiple firm, white deposit, largest measuring 45x30x30mm with partially solid and partially cystic cut surface and it is involving the underlying mucosa macroscopically.  The peritoneum has extensive involvement with small nodules (up to 5) measuring 5 to 10mm with the largest extending to approach the mucosal surfaces.

(25&amp;amp;26  largest nodule with adjacent cystic surface; 27  representative small nodules).

Received a fibrofatty piece of tissue consistent with omentum with multiple firm white nodules.  The specimen measures 165x70x20mm.  The nodules (omental cake) represent about 40% of the submitted omental tissue.

(28&amp;amp;29  omental cake).  RS (M-29/ZH 11/10/2067 km).

Further tissue: Specimen re-examined - no definite uterine adnexal structures identified. There are fibrofatty adhesions of the colonic segment with the uterine serosa including both adnexa.
(30 distal margin large bowel; 31&amp;amp;32 continuous slices uterus 31 fundus, 32 body; 33-37 continuous slices remainder of endometrium with the nearest surgical resection margin; 38 endocervical canal with cervix; 39-41 main tumour polypoid edge; 42&amp;amp;43 smaller bowel segment with tumour polypoid edge; 44 right adnexal region; 45 left adnexal region).  RS (M-45/ZH 14/10/2067 nh)

MACROSCOPIC FINDINGS SUMMARY
Operation type:  Anterior resection with hysterectomy (enblock)
Specimen length:  230mm
Tumour site:  Rectosigmoid junction
Tumour size:  35x30 mm
Distance from margins:
Proximal:  140mm
Distal:  70 mm
Radial: tumor is within 5 mm of the nearest radial margin. (inked green)
Perforation:  not identified
Peritoneal reflection:  tumor is above
Mesorectal integrity:  complete
Extramuscular spread:  present and extensive
Tumour description:  raised edges with deep ulcerative center
Overlying serosa: extensively involved
Lymph nodes: as per block legend
Metastases: Present ( omentum and serosal deposits).

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr L Margheim)
Sections of the en-block segment of rectosigmoid bowel with adherent uterus demonstrates a moderately to poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma involving the full thickness of the colonic wall that infiltrates through bowel wall into adipose tissue, and with serosal involvement. Multiple deposits of carcinoma are seen on the serosa of the rectosigmoid distant from the main tumour mass, and with tumour deposits in the rectosigmoid mesenteric adipose tissue. Six lymph nodes in the rectosigmoid adipose tissue show reactive changes only. Carcinoma is also seen on the serosal surface of the uterus with direct adhesion to the uterine serosa. The colonic tumour shows venous and lymphovascular space invasion. Sections of the left and right adnexal structures demonstrate adenocarcinoma within adipose tissue, however the ovaries and fallopian tubes are not identified.

Sections of the cervix appear unremarkable. There is adenomyosis.
The endometrium shows focal villoglandular Grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma confined to the endometrium that measures 5mm in diameter (Block 7). The adjacent endometrium has a weakly proliferative pattern.

Sections of the first described segment of small bowel demonstrates transmural involvement and mesenteric involvement by moderately to poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma similar to that seen in large bowel.

Sections of the next described segment of small bowel demonstrates mesenteric deposits of moderately to poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma infiltrating into the muscularis propria of the bowel.

Sections of the omentum show multiple deposits of moderately to poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma. See also synoptic report below:

Colorectal carcinoma synoptic report:
Tumour type:  Adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade:  High-grade (moderately differentiated to poorly-differentiated)

Depth of invasion:  T4b - Tumour directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures (uterus)

Peritoneal surface involvement:  Present

Tumour infiltrating lymphocytes: High density (&amp;gt;5/hpf)


Excision Margins:
Proximal:  Clear by 140mm
Distal: Clear by 70mm
Radial: Macroscopically clear of margin by 5mm
Donuts:  Not received

Lymph nodes:
Number positive:  0
Total number:  6
Apical node:  Not identified

Intramural vein invasion:  Suspicious

Extramural vein invasion:  Present

Small vessel (lymphatic) invasion: Present

Perineural invasion:  Present

Distant metastases: Present, sites: Omentum, small bowel - see text above

Other findings:
Remote colon:  Unremarkable
Uterus: 5mm diameter FIGO Grade 1 villo-glandular endometrioid adenocarcinoma confined to endometrium (stage 1A)

Ancillary studies:
Mismatch repair enzymes, Immunostains:
Block 12 = Colonic tumour; Block 7 = endometrial tumour.
Stains for MSI proteins were performed on the colonic and endometrial tumours.
Both tumours show positive staining for MLH-1, PMS-2, MSH-2, and MSH-6. This is the normal pattern of staining.

Microsatellite instability (MSI):  not tested

Colonic carcinoma Synthesis/stage (AJCC/UICC TNM 7):

TNM stage:  pT4b, pN0, pM1b

Stage grouping:  IV B

Residual tumour:  RX - Cannot be assessed

OTHER COMMENTS:  There is a 5mm villo-glandular endometrial carcinoma (grade 1, FIGO stage 1A).

DIAGNOSIS:
SIGMOID COLON AND SMALL BOWEL:
- MODERATELY TO POORLY-DIFFERENTIATED COLONIC ADENOCARCINOMA WITH METASTASIS TO SMALL BOWEL AND OMENTUM AND DIRECT ADHESION TO UTERUS
UTERUS:
- WELL-DIFFERENTIATED (GRADE 1) ENDOMETRIOID ADENOCARCINOMA CONFINED TO ENDOMETRIUM (FIGO STAGE 1A).

13/10/2067 cy
