SPR no: 37C911652Z
MRN no: 37191165
Site_name: SUNSHINE HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report

37C91165 (37C911652Z) MCCONICO, BRITT STUART

*SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ATTACHED*
HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
History of colon cancer. Peritonectomy and liver resection. Right lobe of liver, spleen, gallbladder, uterus/ovaries, peritoneum, omentum.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;RIGHT LIVER&amp;quot;. A lobectomy of liver weighing 1233g and measures 175x160x80mm. The capsule is roughened with areas of ?adhesion. There is a tan solid area measuring 75x70mm noted on the capsule. Underlying this area is a tumour with a tan glistening cut surface. Tumour dimensions are 75x70x43mm. There is a second brown/light brown nodule measuring 5mm in maximum dimension. This is away from tumour. The main tumour abuts the capsule and appears to involve it and is less than 1mm from the nearest resection margin.

(1&amp;amp;2 5mm nodule; 3-7 sections of tumour [3 shows nearest resection margin; 5 shows relationship to normal liver parenchyma; 6&amp;amp;7 shows relation to capsule]; 8 shows area of capsular roughening ?area of adhesion; 9 shows normal liver parenchyma away from the lesion). RS (M-9).

B. &amp;quot;GALLBLADDER, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, OVARIES AND TUBES, CERVIX AND PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;. Gallbladder, spleen, omentum, separate pieces of peritoneum and uterus with attached cervix and bilateral tubes and ovaries. Gallbladder measures 60mm in length by 30mm in maximum diameter. Serosa is smooth, the wall is up to 3mm thick. The mucosa is granular green with strip of cholesterolosis. No stones found within the lumen.

(1 cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 2 body and fundus).

Spleen weighs 254g and measures 125x105x45mm. The capsule is roughened mildly with ?tumour deposits. There are two cysts noted measuring  5-7mm. On sectioning the splenic parenchyma is red to brown in appearance. No discrete lesions identified.

(3 cystic areas noted on the capsule; 4 area of roughening ?tumour; 5 section through normal splenic parenchyma).

Omentum - A piece of fatty tissue consistent with omentum measuring 480x220x20mm. No firm areas or nodules identified.

(6&amp;amp;7 RS of omentum).

Separate pieces of tissue consistent with omentum measuring altogether 140x120x5mm. On one surface there are papillary like suggestions covering an area measuring  75x45mm.

(8&amp;amp;9 peritoneum including area with papillary projection).

Uterus, cervix, bilateral tubes and ovaries. Uterus with attached cervix with 162g and measuring 105mm superior to inferior, 45mm intracornual distance, 17mm anterior endometrium; 30mm posterior endometrium, the endometrium is less than 1mm thick. Within the uterine cavity is an intrauterine device. The ectocervix is 45x35mm with a slit like os 14mm. It is cream coloured and unremarkable. The serosal surface shows bulging posteriorly and cystic like areas. On sectioning includes the posterior areas that appears a bit bulged. The myometrium shows an ill defined firm/scarred area measuring up to 35mm in maximum dimension. The rest of the myometrium is otherwise unremarkable. At the cervix are multiple nabothian cysts.

(10 anterior cervix; 11&amp;amp;12 composite slices posterior cervix; 13 anterior endometrium; 14&amp;amp;15 composite slices posterior endometrium includes firm very scarred area within the myometrium; 16&amp;amp;17 composite slices showing ?area of scarring posteriorly and bulge into the serosa; 18 sections showing serosal cyst).

Right ovary and tube weigh 20g, fallopian tube measures 70mm in length by 7mm in maximum diameter. There is a large parafimbrial cyst measuring up to 20mm in maximum dimension. It is filled with clear serous fluid. The inner wall lining is otherwise smooth. The right ovary is 45x20x10mm and is cystic in nature. On sectioning the cyst are filled with straw coloured fluid. The inner lining are smooth.

(19 parafimbrial cyst; 20 right fallopian tube; 21 right ovary).

The left fallopian tube and ovary weigh 15g. Fallopian tube is 70mm in length by 7mm in maximum diameter. There is a pedunculated parafimbrial cyst measuring 20mm in maximum dimension. It is filled with clear serous fluid and has a small thinner lining. The left ovary measures 30x20x10mm. The serosal surface shows a tan nodular area measuring up to 5mm in maximum dimension. On sectioning the cut surface reveals a cyst filled with clear fluid and a smooth inner lining. It measures up to 6mm in maximum dimension.

(22 left fallopian tube includes parafimbrial cyst; 23 left ovary). RS (M-23/MC/ht).

MICROSCOPIC:     (Dr. J Congleton)
A.  Sections of liver show a nodule of moderately differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma.  The tumour shows glandular and cribriform architecture and extensive tumour necrosis.  Focal lymphovascular and possible vascular invasion is noted adjacent to the main nodule.  Tumour is 3mm from the inked resection margin.  Focal invasion into the overlying liver capsule is present.  There is also focal involvement of the capsular surface.  The liver away from the tumour nodule appears unremarkable. Immunohistochemical stains show that the tumour is positive for CDX2, and negative for CK7, CK20, Estrogen receptor and Progesterone receptor.

In addition, there is a 5mm separate nodule composed of hepatocytes with a relatively normal parenchymal architecture.  Within this nodule there are occasional small bile ducts, together with ductal metaplasia.  The liver plates within this nodule are up to 2 hepatocytes in width, there is no significant nuclear atypia and no increase in mitotic activity.  The overall features are suggestive of a small focus of focal nodular hyperplasia.

The macroscopically identified area of capsular roughening shows some surface inflammatory granulation tissue and fibrosis.  No viable tumour is seen in this area.  The underlying liver parenchyma shows an irregular area of fibrosis containing epitheloid granulomas, some of which shows small foci of central necrosis.  Special stains for bacteria, fungal elements and acid fast bacilli are negative within these granulomas.  No viable tumour is detected within this granulomatous inflammation.

B.  Sections of gallbladder show features of mild chronic cholecystitis. There is no evidence of malignancy in the sections of gallbladder.

Sections of the spleen show several small subcapsular benign mesothelial cysts. The splenic parenchyma appears unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy in the representative tissue examined.

Sections of omentum show no evidence of malignancy. Two small omental lymph nodes are unremarkable.

The separate piece of tissue consistent with omentum shows surface papillary mesothelial hyperplasia.  There are no features to suggest mesothelial malignancy in this area.

Sections of uterus show a large deposit of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma within the posterior myometrium, predominantly within the outer myometrium.  This tumour extends 22mm trough a 33mm uterine wall, involving the outer half and part of the inner half of the myomehtrium. There is no obvious connection with the endometrium, which shows exogenous hormone effect with pseudodecidualised stroma and small atrophic glands.  No endometrial hyperplasia is identified.  The deposit of adenocarcinoma involves the serosal surface of the uterus.  Focal lymphovascular invasion is noted adjacent to this tumour.

Immunohistochemical stain for CDX2 is strongly positive in this tumour, while Cytokeratin 7 shows focal positivity only. Cytokeratin 20, oestrogen receptor and progesterone receptor are negative in this tumour deposit.The morphology and staining characteristics are similar to the tumour deposit in specimen A. The positivity for CDX2 in both tumours is supportive of a gastrointestinal primary site, although clinical correlation is recommended.

Elsewhere, the uterus shows adenomyosis. The cervix shows microglandular hyperplasia and numerous Nabothian follicles.  A mesothelial cyst is noted on the serosal surface of the uterus.

Sections of the right fallopian tube show a benign fimbrial cyst.  The fallopian tube is otherwise unremarkable.  The right ovary contains a luteinised follicular cyst, but shows no evidence of tumour.

Sections of the left fallopian tube and left ovary are unremarkable.

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  RIGHT LIVER :
-METASTATIC, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA.
-FOCAL GRANULOMATOUS INFLAMMATION.
-5mm NODULE OF PROBABLE FOCAL NODULAR HYPERPLASIA.

B.  GALLBLADDER, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, OVARIES AND TUBES, CERVIX AND PERITONEAL DISEASE :
-22mm NODULE OF MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA INVOLVING THE OUTER HALF OF THE POSTERIOR MYOMETRIUM, WITH FOCAL INVOLVEMENT OF THE SEROSAL SURFACE.  THIS TUMOUR SHOWS SIMILAR MORPHOLOGY AND STAINING FEATURES TO THAT IN SPECIMEN A.
-FOCAL AREA OF PAPILLARY MESOTHELIAL HYPERPLASIA INVOLVING THE SEPARATE PIECE OF TISSUE (? OMENTUM).
- BILATERAL TUBES AND OVARIES SHOW NO TUMOUR INVOLVEMENT.  FOR DETAILS, PLEASE SEE TEXT.

2/7/2066 ank

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (22/8/66):
Immunostains for MSI proteins (The Northwestern Mutual PARKES 8; block: A3)

MLH1:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei.
PMS2:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei.
MSH2:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei.
MSH6:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei.

Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme.

Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible.

22/8/2066 cy

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT:
Slides sent to Envoi pathology Envoi Specialist Pathology for Molecular testing, report received, it reads :

SUMMARY
POSITIVE FOR KRAS GENE MUTATION (G12D MUTATION)

BRAF V600E IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY NEGATIVE

REPORTED BY : Dr. CLETUS WYBENGA (3/10/66)

(Full report is scanned and filed in the Anatomical Pathology Department)

4/10/2066 ank
