SPR no: 09E989957T
MRN no: 0919899
Site_name: KATHERINE HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report09E98995,09E98995 (09E989957T) NYCE, EDWARD

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Ovarian cancer.  High grade serous.

MACROSCOPIC:
Anterior abdominal wall mass.
Right parametrium.
Left paracolic peritoneum.
Rectosigmoid colon, uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes, bilateral ovaries.
Left pericardium.
Diaphragm.
Falciform ligament.
Stomach.
Gastrocolonic ligament.
Right pelvic node.
Peritoneum.

A.  &amp;quot;ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL MASS&amp;quot;. Consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue.  It measures 60x50x34mm.  On sectioning there is a tumour with a yellow lobulated  cut surface intervened with areas of fibrosis involving the entire specimen.  The tumour measures 60x45x28mm.  It comes up to some of the resection margin and can be seen on the peritoneal surface.  RS (M-5 [5 tumour block]).

B.  &amp;quot;RIGHT PARAMETRIUM&amp;quot;. Consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue 20x10x7mm.  Bisected.  On sectioning one of the pieces falls apart. AE (3-1)

C.  &amp;quot;LEFT PARACOLIC PERITONEUM&amp;quot;. Consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue consistent with peritoneum.  It measures 60x30x10mm.  At one edge is a yellow nodule measuring 6mm maximum extent with similar cut surface as A.

(1 nodule bisected; 2 further RS of peritoneum). RS (M-2)

D.  &amp;quot;RECTOSIGMOID COLON, UTERUS, CERVIX, BILATERAL FALLOPIAN TUBES AND BILATERAL OVARIES&amp;quot;. Consists of a segment of bowel consistent with rectosigmoid,  uterus with attached cervix, right ovary and fallopian tube and a cystic/solid mass in the left adnexal region ? tube and ovary. All received as en-mass organ block.  There is also adherant segment of fatty tissue consistent with omentum. The segment of large bowel measures 170mm in length with a proximal diameter of 30mm, distal diameter of 35mm.  Adherant omentum measures 110mm.  Uterus with attached cervix measures 80mm superior to inferior, 25mm intercornual distance, 15mm anterior endomyometrium, 15mm posterior endomyometrium. The endometrium is less than a mm thick and there is a intrauterine device. The ectocervix measures 25x15mm with a slit like os 15mm.  It is cream coloured and unremarkable.  The serosa is roughened with possible tumour deposit noted posteriorly at the lower uterine segment serosa is disrupted over an area measuring 30x30mm.

Anterior aspect of the uterus/cervix is inked blue, posterior black.  Proximal resection margin of anterior resection is blue, distal radial green and the roughened serosal aspect of the ovarian mass on the left side is inked green.

On sectioning through the cervix there is a possible tumour deposit measuring up to 3mm maximum extent located in the posterior cervix.  On sectioning through the myometrium there are two nodules, one with a pale white cut surface consistent with a fibroid measuring 4mm. The other with the yellow cut surface.

(1 right parametrial tissue; 2 left parametrial tissue; 3 anterior cervix; 4 posterior cervix; 5 anterior lower uterine segment; 6 posterior lower uterine segment; 7 anterior endomyometrium; 8 posterior endomyometrium; 9 yellow nodule within myometrium; 10 pale white nodule within myometrium)

The right ovary and fallopian tube together weigh 14g.  Ovary measures 40x20x18mm.  Fallopian tube was 45mm in length with a maximum diameter of 6mm.  The ovarian serosal surface is lobulated. The fallopian tube serosal surface shows multiple paratubal cysts ranging from 1-2mm.  On sectioning through the ovary it is extensively involved by tumour with a yellow cut surface.

(11&amp;amp;12 right fallopian tube entirely embedded; 13&amp;amp;14 sections of right ovary)

Left cystic mass (? ovary) measures 80x55x50mm.  It is partially cystic, partially solid.  No left fallopian tube is identifiable macroscopically.  The serosa is roughened over an area measuring 30x30mm (?tumour protusion) also noted is adherant omentum. This area of roughenening is inked green. On sectioning the cystic component is filled with gelatinous yellow material.  The inner wall lining is smooth.  The solid component is diffusely involved by tumour with a yellow to pale white cut surface. The tumour infiltrates into the attached mesocolic fat and myometrium.

(15 left ovarian mass in relation to mesocolic fat; 16 ovarian mass in relation to adherent omentum; 17&amp;amp;18 ovarian mass in relation to uterus; 19&amp;amp;20 sections through roughened serosa and shows more solid pale white component of left ovarian tumour mass; 21&amp;amp;22 CS [21 showing cystic component filled with gelatinous material]; 23 further section of tumour showing cystic component; 24 further section of cystic component of tumour)

The segment of large of large bowel consistent with anterior resection shows normal mucosal folds. There is tumour deposit at the radial margin less than a mm from the distal resection margin.

(25 proximal margin; 26&amp;amp;27 distal margin including involved radial margin; 28&amp;amp;29 possible lymph nodes [28 one node bisected, 29 ?seven nodes]).  RS (M-29)

E.  &amp;quot;LEFT PERICARDIUM&amp;quot;. Consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue. First one measures 15x15x10mm and is involved by tumour. Second one measures 20x15x3mm possibly involved by tumour.  First piece is bisected. On sectioning the cut surface is yellow.  Second piece bisected and embedded in block 2.  AE (M-2)

F.  &amp;quot;DIAPHRAGM&amp;quot;.  Consists of three pieces of fibrofatty tissue and involved by tumour, altogether 130x95x20mm.  RS (M-4)

G.  &amp;quot;FALCIFORM LIGAMENT&amp;quot;. Consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue.  It measures 20x10x10mm.  Bisected. AE (2-1)

H.  &amp;quot;STOMACH&amp;quot;. Consists of a piece of fibrous tissue.  No mucosa is identified.  It measures 30x20x15mm.  Resection margin is inked blue.  On sectioning there is a tumour with a yellow cut surface.  It measures 30x15x14mm.  RS (M-3)

J.  &amp;quot;GASTROCOHOLIC  (SIC) LIGAMENT&amp;quot;.  Consists of two pieces of fatty tissue in aggregate 80x70x22mm.  Three tumour deposits are noted ranging from 2-18mm and one possible 7mm lymph node.

(1 lymph node; 2&amp;amp;3 sections of tumour). RS (M-3)

K.  &amp;quot;RIGHT PELVIC NODE&amp;quot;. Consists of a fatty tissue with one possible lymph node.  It measures 12x10x5mm.  Bisected.  AE (2-1)

L.  &amp;quot;PERITONEUM&amp;quot;. Consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue 7mm maximum dimension.  AE (1-1/MC/ank)

MICROSCOPIC:
A.  The sections show fibrofatty connective tissues and skeletal muscle that are broadly infiltrated by tumour with papillary and glandular architecture with irregular glandular spaces, high grade nuclei with nuclear pleomorphism and small nucleoli and some multinucleated cells, scattered psammomatous calcifications and with papillary architecture in some areas.There is also large amount of necrosis associated with macrophages reaction and cholesterol clefts.  Carcinoma is present at the inked edges of the specimen in some areas.

B.  The sections show fibrofatty connective tissue that are involved by high grade carcinoma with papillary architecture and psammomatous calcification.

C.  The sections show fibrofatty tissues in which there is high grade papillary carcinoma with psammomatous calcification.  Macrophage reaction and cholesterol clefts are also seen.

D.  Sections of the cervix are unremarkable.  The endometrium is inactive/weakly proliferative pattern. There is a leiomyoma. There are deposits of high grade serous carcinoma of the anterior and posterior uterine serosa.  Section of the right fallopian tube shows focal subserosal high grade serous carcinoma.  The tubal epithelium on the right side is not involved by tumour.  Within the fallopian tube there is acute and chronic inflammation including lymphocytes and plasma cells and polymorph neutrophils of the lamina propria and also within the fallopian tube lumen.  These are consistent with active chronic salpingitis.

The right ovary is diffusely infiltrated by high grade serous carcinoma.

Sections of the left adnexal mass demonstrate high grade serous carcinoma with papillary and glandular architecture as well as some areas with a sheet like appearance with superimposed clear cell change.  The tumour involves the left ovary and in the sections the left fallopian tube is identified and involved by tumour.  Tumour infiltrates directly into adherent omentum and into adherent myometrium.

Sections of the segment of large bowel show normal mucosa and muscularis.  In the adventitia and serosa there are deposits of high grade serous carcinoma including on the serosa near the proximal and distal margins, and the inked radial margin of the colonic mesentery is involved by carcinoma.  Subserosal deposits of carcinoma are seen adjacent to the mesocolon.  Six pericolic lymph nodes shows reactive changes only.

E.  The sections show fibrofatty tissues involved by high grade serous carcinoma.

F.  The sections show fibrofatty tissues and with adjacent skeletal muscle and these are involved by high grade serous carcinoma. There is also a small amount of adjacent uninvolved liver tissue.

G.  Sections show fibrofatty tissues with high grade serous carcinoma.

H.  The section shows smooth muscle with adjacent fatty tissue and these are widely infiltrated by high grade serous carcinoma.  No mucosa is identified. Tumour is seen adjacent to diathermy effect.

J.  The sections show fatty tissue with high grade serous carcinoma and with fibroblastic reaction and with areas of macrophage reaction. There is also an uninvolved lymph node identified.

K.  The section shows lymph node with reactive changes.

L.  The section shows fibrofatty tissue with high grade serous carcinoma.

Immunohistochemistry (block J2): There is positive staining for CAM5.2, PAX-8, WT-1, p-16, and p-53 shows strong staining in greater than 80%..

Comment : There is widespread involvement of the tissues (including the left fallopian tube) by high grade serous carcinoma as detailed above.

DIAGNOSIS:
A.  ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL MASS -
-HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA.

B.  RIGHT PARAMETRIUM -
-HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA.

C.  LEFT PARACOLIC PERITONEUM -
-HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA.

D.  RECTOSIGMOID COLON, UTERUS, CERVIX, BILATERAL FALLOPIAN TUBES AND BILATERAL OVARIES -
-HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA OF LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY AND RIGHT OVARY, UTERINE SEROSA, RECTOSIGMOID SEROSA-ADVENTITIA, AND ADHERENT OMENTUM.

E.  LEFT PERICARDIUM -
-HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA.

F.  DIAPHRAGM -
-HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA.

G.  FALCIFORM LIGAMENT -
-HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA.

H.  STOMACH -
-HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA.

J.  GASTRIC COLIC LIGAMENT -
-HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA.

K.  RIGHT PELVIC LYMPH NODE -
-NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY.

L.  PERITONEUM -
-HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA.

3/5/2067 ank
