SPR no: 37K091147Y
MRN no: 64551125
Site_name: IPSWICH HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report64O51125 (64O511256V) SAMAY, LOGAN JEFFERY

MSI IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Peritonectomy, omentum, uterus, rectum, pelvic side wall, peritoneum, ielocolic anastomosis.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;RECTUM, UTERUS, BOWEL, OMENTUM, PERITONEUM&amp;quot;.  Received in one jar, multiple tissue fragments including:

A segment of small bowel measuring 100x30mm with mesocolon up to 25mm.  The outer surface is ragged with a serosal nodule measuring 5x5x3mm, located 40mm of the nearest margin and has no mucosal extension.  The remainder mucosa is smooth.  No polyps or tumours are identified.

(1  representative serosal nodule).

A segment of bowel consistent with rectum including the anterior peritoneal reflection at its distal end measures 80mm in length and up to 40mm in circumference with attached mesorectum up to 70mm.  Attached is an peritoneal strip with ring piece of mucosa (cervix) at one end measuring 10mm in length and up to 25mm in circumference.  The cervix mucosal surfaces are unremarkable.  Extensive adhesions are identified in the adjacent tissue.  The serosal surface of the bowel contains a firm white nodule measuring 15x10x7mm, located 35mm of the nearest margin.  The adherent soft tissue between the cervix and the rectum has been serially sliced.  It reveals a firm white nodule measuring 25x15x15mm infiltrating into the deep tissue to reach the rectal wall with no mucosal involvement.  The margins are inked blue.

(2 LS across cervix; 3  distal resection margin of rectum; 4  rectum wall involvement by distal nodule; 5  serosal nodule proximally).

A segment of bowel consistent with sigmoid measures 180x40mm with attached mesocolon up to 60mm.  Adherent is body and fundus of uterus measuring 50x45x35mm.  The anatomy is obscured by multiple adhesions involving the bowel loop to the uterus but right adnexal structures are possibly present including a fallopian tube 35x2mm and an ovary 20x10x7mm.  No definite left adnexal structures are identified.  Multiple tumour deposits are identified on the serosal surfaces, more marked on the left posterior peritoneal strip of the uterus.  Also multiple nodules are identified on the serosa, mesentery and the wall of the small bowel.  Largest measures 35x25x15mm.  The possible margins are inked blue.  The uterine cut surface reveals extensive firm white trabeculated myometrium up to 14mm thick.  The endometrium where apparent is up to 2mm thick.  The right fallopian tube end contains a cyst filled with clear serous fluid measuring 10mm in maximum diameter (paratubal cyst).

(6  fallopian tube fimbrial end three LS; 7  two TS right ovary and one TS mid; 8-11 full face of uterus [8  anterior isthmus, 9  posterior isthmus, 10  body anterior and posterior, 11 fundus with serosal involvement; 12  serosal involvement uterus; 13  peritoneal involvement left uterine body posteriorly; 14  bowel wall involvement with the largest deposit; 15  peritoneal strip and serosal surface involvement).

A segment of bowel measuring 150 and is up to 55mm in circumference with an anastomosis line 50mm of the nearest edge.  Mesentery is attached along the specimen to a depth of 40mm.  There is a segment of fatty tissue consistent with omentum, measuring 90x80x15mm is identified.  The serosal surface is ragged, haemorrhagic with extensive adhesions.  With loosely adherent segment of tissue consist of a fallopian tube 45x5mm with adjacent ovary 20x10x15mm.  There are multiple firm white nodules identified across the specimen.  Largest at the mesentery measures 25x20x10mm.  The remainder involve the omentum, fallopian tube and the bowel wall measuring 5 to 15mm in maximum diameter.  The cut surface of the ovary is unremarkable.

(16 fimbrial end of tube bisected; 17  one TS mid tube with adjacent nodule; 18  two TS ovary; 19  largest nodule at mesentery; 20  omental nodule also tumour block for tissue banking; 21  mucosa at anastomosis).

A gallbladder measuring 65x30mm.  The outer surface is ragged with multiple adhesions.  The wall is up to 4mm thick.  The mucosal surface is green and granular.  No calculi are identified.

(22  cystic duct and TS neck; 23  TS body and LS fundus at area of involvement).

Received a fibrofatty piece of tissue consistent with omentum, measuring 250x135x25mm.  There is confluent involvement by firm white nodules, largest measures 30x25x15mm.  The remainder nodules are 5 to 10mm (at least total of 7 are identified).

(24  omental involvement).

Received multiple fibrofatty pieces of tissue consistent with peritoneal strip, skeletal muscle and pieces of omentum measure 220x185x50mm.  Multiple firm white nodules are identified across the specimen at its serosal surface and infiltrating into the underlying fat and possible skeletal muscle.  The largest nodule measures 50x25x20mm.

(25  peritoneal strip involvement; 26 peritoneum with underlying  muscle involvement).  RS (M-26/ZH 8/3/2067 km).

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. R Marentis)
Sections from the small bowel segment show a focus of metastatic adenocarcinoma in keeping with colorectal origin. The mucosal surface appears unremarkable. The end of the bowel segment appears clear of the metastatic focus.
Sections of the rectum show infiltrating moderately to poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma with mucinous differentiation. The tumour involves pericolic fat extending into the muscularis propria. There is tumour at the circumferential margin of the specimen. Focal changes suspicious for perineural involvement is identified. No involvement of the cervix.
The fimbrial end of the fallopian tube, presumed right tube,  shows paratubal cyst. A focus of adherent ovarian tissue is identified. Within the paratubal tissue, there is a focus showing high-grade poorly-differentiated large cell carcinoma with prominent lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate favouring high grade serous carcinoma. The tumour shows different morphology to those seen in the small bowel and large bowel segments. The right ovary appears unremarkable. The cervix shows occasional Nabothian cysts.
A focus of metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma is identified in the uterine fundus. There is focal lymphovascular invasion. The parametrial fat also involvement by carcinoma.
Metastatic carcinoma is identified in the peritoneum.
The other fallopian tube also shows extensive involvement by adenocarcinoma within the paratubal soft tissue. No evidence of metastatic tumour is identified within the ovary.
Sections of the anastomosis show colonic mucosa in continuity with small bowel mucosa. No evidence of metastatic tumour is identified at this site.
Sections of gallbladder show mild changes of chronic cholecystitis. On the serosal surface, deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma is identified.
Sections of the omentum also show metastatic adenocarcinoma.
Sections of the striated muscle presumably from the abdominal wall also show deposition of metastatic adenocarcinoma.
Comment:   There is extensive involvement of small bowel, colon, uterus, peritoneum and omentum, gallbladder and left tube by adenocarcinoma with features consistent with colorectal origin (CDX2 +, cytokeratin 20+, cytokeratin 7-, Pax-8-, CEA+).

However, the separate focus in the presumed right paratubal region shows changes favouring high grade serous carcinoma (Pax-8+, cytokeratin 7+, cytokeratin 20-, CEA-, CDX2-)

DIAGNOSIS:
RECTUM, UTERUS, BOWEL, OMENTUM, PERITONEUM
- METASTATIC COLORECTAL ADENOCARCINOMA INVOLVING SMALL BOWEL, UTERUS, COLON, PERITONEUM, OMENTUM, GALLBLADDER AND LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE.

-FOCAL HIGH GRADE SEROUS CARCINOMA IN RIGHT PARATUBAL AREA.

8/8/2067 cy

MSI IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY STAINS SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (block 14)
MLH1:		positive/normal staining
PMS2:		positive/normal staining
MSH2:		positive/normal staining
MSH6:		positive/normal staining
