SPR no: 38M9587666
MRN no: 3849587
Site_name: MORNINGTON ISLAND HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportCLINICAL:
Interval debulking.  Ca 125 from 5000 down to 680.  High grade serous ovarian tumour.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus and cervix&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, fallopian tube (probable/presumed left tube) and weighs 79g.  The uterus measures 70 x 45 x 30mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 30 x 20mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 1mm in thickness and the myometrium is 15mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  The presumed left fallopian tube measures 35mm in length and 8mm in diameter.  The serosal surface is unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 to 4 - full LS anterior body and cervix; 5 &amp;amp; 6 - presumed left fallopian tube; 7 to 10 - full LS posterior body and cervix.

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a fallopian tube with adherent mass.  The fallopian tube measures 45mm in length with an outer diameter of up to 9mm.  The serosal surface is unremarkable.  The mass measures 60 x 45 x 35mm.  The serosal surface is intact.  On sectioning the cut surface of the mass shows cystic areas filled with pale clear gelatinous material and surrounding cyst are fibrous and yellowish areas.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - fallopian tube; 4 to 15 - all of the mass.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a mass measuring 70 x 60 x 40mm.  The serosal surface appears intact.  The cut surface is yellow with cystic changes and haemorrhagic areas.  There is no definitive fallopian tube identified.  RS embedded in 9 blocks.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of two pieces of fatty tissue measuring 136 x 10 x 40mm.  The cut surface shows multifocal areas of tumour deposit occupying approximately less than 10% of the fat.  RS embedded 3 blocks.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Spleen&amp;quot;, consists of a spleen measuring 110 x 90 x 40mm.  On the spleens capsular surface there is a focal area of pale white area measuring 30 x 14mm.  On sectioning corresponding to the pale white area is a cystic lesion measuring 35 x 25 x 35mm.  The lesion abuts the capsular surface and lies 2mm from the hilar fat.  The spleen hilar fat is inked blue (presumed resection margin).  The rest of the spleen is unremarkable.
Blocks: 1 to 4 - RS cystic lesion (2 &amp;amp; 3 - RS showing cyst relation to the hilar region fat; 4 - lesion  relation to capsule).  (LM/ta 2.10.66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr J Bour):
A.  Sections show high grade serous carcinoma situated on the uterine serosa and invading almost the full thickness of the myometrium where lymphovascular invasion is present.  Tumour is also present within paratubal soft tissue.
The ectocervix and endocervix show no significant abnormality.  The endometrium is inactive.  The myometrium and fallopian tube show no significant abnormality.

B.  Sections of the ovary show extensive high grade serous carcinoma and deposits within paratubal soft tissue.  The fallopian tube otherwise shows no significant abnormality.

Immunoperoxidase stains for MSI proteins (Block B6)
MLH1          Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2          Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2          Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6          Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
C.  Sections of the ovary show high grade serous carcinoma.  Areas of necrosis are present together with changes consistent with treatment effect.  No fallopian tube is identified.
D.  Sections of the omentum show high grade serous carcinoma with focal changes of treatment effect.
E.  Sections of the spleen show high grade serous carcinoma within the splenic parenchyma and also within the splenic capsule.  The spleen otherwise shows no significant abnormality.
DIAGNOSIS:
A - E.  Uterus and cervix, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes, omentum and spleen:
High grade serous carcinoma involving both ovaries, paratubal soft tissue, myometrium and uterine serosa, omentum and spleen.
