SPR no: 44Y526899O
MRN no: 4495268
Site_name: TUMUT DISTRICT HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportSUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (28.12.66)


CLINICAL:
Grae 1 endometriod AC uterus with pelvic and PA nodes on CT and PET.  Protein +.  Ketone trace.  Blood+.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left external iliac nodes B1&amp;quot;, consists of a lymph node 30 x 20 x 6mm.  The cut surface is tan and homogeneous.  Two representative sections embedded for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section one; 2 - frozen section two; 3 - remaining lymph node; 4 - remaining fibrofatty tissue.  AE 4 blocks.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
No tumour seen.
Result to Anaesthetist by Dr K Atterbury at 3:20pm on 17/10/16

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left external iliac nodes B2&amp;quot;, consists of two lymph nodes, 25 x 15 x 10mm and the other 20 x 15 x 6mm.  RS from each lymph node embedded for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section node one; 2 - frozen section node two; 3 - rest of lymph node one; 4 - rest of lymph node two.  AE 4 blocks.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Metastatic carcinoma with papillary architecture  favour serous.
Result to Anaesthetist by Dr K Brossard at 3:20pm on 17/10/16

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus, cervix, tubes, ovaries&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 130g.  The uterus with attached cervix measures 100 x 65 x 45mm and has a smooth and shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 30 x 28mm and has an unremarkable surface.  The anterior resection margin is inked blue and posterior inked black.
On sectioning the endometrium is 7mm in maximum thickness.  An exophytic lesion noted with an anterior and posterior uterine cavity extending bilaterally, 65 x 40 x 6mm.  On sectioning the depth of the lesion cannot be assessed by definite. The myometrium is 20mm in maximum thickness and contains multiple fibroid nodules measuring 6 to 8mm across.
The right fallopian tube/fimbria measures 50mm in length and 5mm in diameter and appears unremarkable.  The right ovary measures 25 x 12 x 7mm and has an unremarkable surface.  The left fallopian tube with attached fimbria measures 45mm in length and 5mm in diameter and appears unremarkable.   The left ovary measures 28 x 11 x 10mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.

Blocks: 1 - RS right fallopian tube including two LS fimbria and three TS; 2  three RS right ovary; 3 - RS left fallopian tube including two LS fimbria and three TS; 4 - RS left ovary; 5 to 9 - full LS of anterior body and cervix towards right; 10 to 21 - rest of right anterior endometrium as per diagram; 22 - RS fibroid nodule; 23 to 27 - full LS of anterior body and cervix towards left; 28 to 39 - the rest of left anterior endometrium as per diagram; 40 to 45 - full LS posterior body and cervix towards the left; 46 to 61 - rest of left posterior endometrium; 62 to 67 - full LS of posterior body and cervix towards right; 68 to 78 - rest of right posterior endometrium as per diagram; 80 - fibroid nodule bisected.  RS in 80 blocks.  Please see the diagram.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Bladder peritoneal nodule&amp;quot;, consists of a pale firm nodule measuring 25 x 15 x 10mm.  The cut surface shows a well demarcated firm solid area, 20 x 14 x 7mm.  AE 2 blocks.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left external iliac nodes (A)&amp;quot;, consists of multiple pieces of irregular fibrofatty tissue measuring 70 x 50 x 5mm in aggregate.  One lymph node is identified measuring 15 x 10 x 5mm.
Blocks: 1 - one lymph node; 2 to 5 - rest of the fibrofatty tissue.  AE 5 blocks.

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left para aortic nodes&amp;quot;, consists of an irregular piece of fibrofatty tissue, 40 x 30 x 20mm.  Two lymph nodes are identified, 25 x 20 x 15mm and 10 x 10 x 6mm.  Both lymph nodes appear to be involved.
Blocks: 1 - smaller lymph node; 2 &amp;amp; 3 - larger lymph node.  AE 3 blocks.

G.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of a segment of omental fat, 180 x 130 x 20mm.  The fat appears slightly congested and diffusely firm.  On sectioning no gross lesion is seen.  Five probable lymph nodes are identified each 3mm across.
Blocks: 1 - five probable lymph nodes; 2 to 4 - RS rest of omentum.  RS 4 blocks.
(TO:LN; LN/ta 20/12/66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr K Induddi):
A.  One lymph node shows no evidence of malignancy (0/1).
B  &amp;amp;  C.   The entire endometrium is embedded and examined.  The tumour is a within the uterus is a grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  The carcinoma  invades the outer half of the myometrium 16.5mm through a wall 16.7mm thick (C13).   No serosal penetration is identified. The tumour shows grade 1 architecture and grade 3 nuclei compatible with overall FIGO grade 2 disease.  Some surface papilliform and villoglandular architecture is seen.  The invasive tumour is associated with very focal psammomatous calcification. There is extensive lymphovascular invasion including  into the outer half of the myometrium and well beyond the front of invasive carcinoma.  In contrast to the stromal invasive tumour  the morphology of the tumour within vascular spaces is distinctly papilliform and  associated with psammomatous calcification raising consideration of serous differentiation (eg C31).  However, unlike typical serous carcinoma the tumour cells display round to oval nuclei with only small rather than conspicuous nucleoli, lacks smudged chromatin,  the cytoplasm is rather pale and mucoid in areas, and the apical aspects of cells presents a smooth rather than hobnail like surface.  There is focal psammomatous calcifation in the cervical stroma however no stromal invasion by viable carcinoma is seen.  The cervix is otherwise unremarkable.  There is also extensive adenomyosis, foci of which are involved by endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  The endometrium also shows foci of complex atypical hyperplasia.
The right and left ovary show benign serous inclusion cysts and senescent changes only.  The right and left fallopian tubes are unremarkable and uninvolved.  No evidence of in-situ serous carcinoma is seen.
The two lymph left external iliac lymph nodes examined at the time of intra operative frozen section consultation show extensive involvement by carcinoma with a conspicuous papillary architecture and psammomatous calcification similar to that seen in the lymphovascular spaces within the uterus.  Additionally, the tumour here show foci of tertiary patten branching.  There is perinodal lymphatic involvement and focal probable extranodal extension in one of the nodes.  The remaining fatty tissue contains an additional lymph node which is also extensively involved by carcinoma (3/3).
COMMENT:
The uterine tumour is a grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma.  Due to the divergent morphology between the uterine stromal invasive component on the one hand and the tumour  within the uterine lymphovascular spaces and lymph node deposits on the other hand,  consideration is given to the possibility of a  tumour with endometrioid and serous differentiation or a tumour with hybrid features.  No distinct serous differentiation is seen in the uterine invasive component (endometrium entirely embedded).  As the serous features in the metastases are indefinite, and the cytomorphology of the metastatic tumour shares some features with the uterine stromal invasive tumour,  the metastases are favoured to represent an  endometrioid carcinoma with papillary architecture rather than a hybrid tumour.
Selected slides of both the uterine tumour and metastases are seen in consultation with Drs K Palese and Dr K Lenoir who also favour a diagnosis of endometrioid carcinoma with papillary architecture in the metastatic deposits.
D.  Sections show mature adipose tissue with nodular change of fat necrosis including membranes cystic fat necrosis.  There is some acute haemorrhage.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
E.  Two lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/2).
F.  Two of two  lymph nodes contain extensive metastatic  carcinoma with papillary architecture and psammomatous calcification.  favoured to represent metastatic endometrioid carcinoma with papillary architecture in this context (see comment above) (2/2).  There are numerous foci of perinodal lymphatic involvement and a small focus of possible extranodal extension.
G.  Sections show mature adipose tissue.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A to G.  Left external iliac nodes, B1, left external iliac nodes B2, uterus cervix tubes and ovaries, bladder peritoneal nodule, left external iliac node A, left para-aortic nodes and omentum:
- Grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma invading into the outer half of the myometrium 16.5 mm through a wall 16.7mm thick, extensive lymphovascular invasion , cervix uninvolved, ovaries and fallopian tubes uninvolved and unremarkable, five of eight lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma (5/8)(see comment), torted peritoneal fat (bladder nodule), omentum uninvolved.
MSI and tumour immunohistochemistry is pending.  A supplementary report will be issued.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (28.12.66) (Reported by Dr K Vanlandingham)

Immunohistochemistry:
In the presence of positive and adequate controls the tumour cells stain as follow
P16:   Positive with a patchy distribution in both the stromal invasive and vascular components.
P53:   Reduced however patchy foci positive in both the stromal invasive and vascular components; interpreted as consistent with a normal wild type pattern
ER:     Positive

COMMENT:
The pattern of immunoexpression of P16 and P53 within the tumour, although not specific, is consistent with endometrioid adenocarcinoma.

MSI Immunohistochemistry:
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		loss of nuclear staining, however suboptimal internal control; repeat stain pending; supplementary report to follow.
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (7.1.66)
The repeat MSH6 stain (received courtesy of TRANGIE MULTI PURPOSE HEALTH SERVICE Hospital) confirms abnormal loss of expression.   There is some non-specific cytoplasmic staining within the papilliform tumour within vascular spaces however nuclear expression appears either significantly reduced or lost.  This result supports the interpretation that the tumour is an endometrioid carcinoma. As the tumour has a microsatellite instability phenotype follow up of this result is advised.
