SPR no: 81Y723124G
MRN no: 8197231
Site_name: MALLEE TRACK HEALTH AND COMMUNITY SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report
CLINICAL:
Bilateral ovary and cyst.  Bilateral pelvic mass.  Ca 125 10.  CEA 1.  Paget&amp;apos;s disease.


MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Right tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a fallopian tube 40mm in  length and 5mm in diameter with an attached ovary, 100 x 80 x 50mm.  The ovary has a cyst, 80mm in diameter and a solid tan coloured area, 65mm in diameter.  The cyst has a smooth outer surface and contains thick yellow fluid.  The cyst is multiloculated with a smooth inner lining.  The solid component is partly necrotic.  Two RS embedded for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section one; 2 - frozen section two; 3 to 14 - more representative sections of the solid as well as cystic areas of lesion; 15 - RS fallopian tube including two LS fimbria and four TS fallopian tube.  RS in 15 blocks.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Carcinoma, favour Mullerian.
Phone result to Dr V Ketterling by Dr V Pedelty at 10:25am on 17.10.2016

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Left tube and ovary&amp;quot;, consists of a fallopian tube, 50mm in length and 7mm in diameter, and an attached multiloculated cyst 70 x 50 x 40mm.  The tube is unremarkable.  The external surface of the cyst has a tan nodule with some papillary appearing areas 15 x 12 x 7mm, and a separate papillary area 8 x 6 x 4mm.  The cyst wall has a solid area 40 x 30 x 20mm.  The solid area has a vaguely nodular tan cut surface with probable necrotic areas.  The internal lining of the rest of cyst is  smooth.
Blocks: 1 - RS fallopian tube including two LS fimbria and three TS; 2 to 4 - the nodule as well as the papillary area at the external surface with underlying cystic lesion (block 3 - also includes some solid internal parts; 5 to 12 - RS solid and cystic parts.  RS in 12 blocks.

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus + cervix&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix and some soft tissue attached to the lower uterine segment, weighing 100g in total.  The uterus with attached cervix measures 85 x 50 x 40mm and has smooth and shiny serosa.  The ectocervix measures 25 x 25mm and appears unremarkable.
On sectioning, the endometrium is 2mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 26mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium includes multiple fibroid nodules 5 to 30 mm across. The largest fibroid is completely calcified.
The soft tissue attached to lower uterine segment measures 60 x 30 x 20mm and includes a solid yellow nodule, 12 x 10 x 3mm and an ill defined firm area, 25 x 10 x 5mm.
Blocks: 1 to 5 - LS section of anterior body and cervix (block 1 - strip of endometrium overlying the calcified fibroid nodule); 6 to 9 - full LS of posterior body and cervix including RS fibroid nodules; 10 - more RS fibroid nodules (the largest calcified nodule is not sampled); 11 - the solid nodule within soft tissue attached to the lower uterine segment trisected; 12 to 14 - RS firm white area within soft tissue attached to the lower uterine segment.  RS in 14 blocks.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Pouch of Douglas peritoneum&amp;quot;, consists of an irregular piece of tan tissue 30 x 20 x 8mm.  On sectioning no gross lesion is identified.  AE 2 blocks.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omental nodule&amp;quot;, consists of an irregular piece of pale tissue, 5 x 4 x 3mm.  AE 1 block.

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of omental fibrofatty tissue, 400 x 200 x 30mm.  The external surface appears congested.  The specimen appears diffusely firm.  On sectioning, two ill-defined firm white areas are noted, each measuring approximately 15mm in maximum dimension.  Also a metal clip is noted within the omental fat.
Blocks: 1 to 2 - one ill-defined firm area; 3 to 4- the second ill-defined area.  RS in 4 blocks.
(TO: LN;LN/vo 20.12.66)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr V Heaslet):
A.  Sections show a high grade carcinoma.  Roughly 50% of the tumour consists of glands and papillae that has features of a high grade serous carcinoma.  The other 50% consists of high grade spindle cell tumour.  The spindle cells are highly pleomorphic and have eosinophilic cytoplasm and frequent mitoses.  The spindle cell component merges with the more obvious epithelial component and shows patchy positive stainimng for pancytokeratin; it is interpreted as sarcomatoid carcinoma.  Overall the tumour is considered to be a high grade carcinoma with roughly 50% conventional serous appearance and 50% sarcomatoid appearance (sarcomatoid carcinoma), rather than a malignant mixed Mullerian tumour (carcinosarcoma).  There is extensive tumour necrosis.  Focally the tumour has highly atypical multinucleate tumour giant cells (block A6).  No heterologous elements are seen.  The tumour extends to the surface of the ovary.
Sections of the fallopian tube are unremarkable.

B.  Sections of the ovary show a high grade carcinoma most consistent with a high grade serous carcinoma.  There are occasional small foci of spindle cell (sarcomatoid tumour) (blocks B4, B10). Sections of the fallopian tube show a small focus of high grade carcinoma attached to the fimbrial end. The tube is otherwise unremarkable and no carcinoma in situ of tubal epithelium is seen.

C.  Sections of the cervix are unremarkable. Sections of the endometrium show that this is in proliferative phase.  Leiomyomas are confirmed in the myometrium. The myometrium is otherwise unremarkable.
Sections of the described soft tissue attached to the lower uterine segment show that both the nodule and the poorly defined firm tissue are areas of high grade carcinoma with a sarcomatoid appearance (sarcomatoid carcinoma).  No conventional serous carcinoma is seen.

D.  Sections show mesothelium with underlying fibrofat.  There is focal involvement by sarcomatoid carcinoma.

E.  Sections show a deposit of high grade serous carcinoma with associated psammoma bodies.

F.  Sections of the described white areas show omental involvement by high grade serous carcinoma.  No sarcomatoid component is seen.

Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr V Cicala.


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right tube and ovary:  High grade serous carcinoma with sarcomatoid component.

B.  Left tube and ovary:  High grade serous carcinoma of ovary with focal involvement of fimbrial end of fallopian tube.

C.  Uterus:
1.   Sarcomatoid carcinoma involving soft tissue attached to lower segment.
2.   Leiomyomas.

D.   Pouch of Douglas peritoneum:  Focal sarcomatoid carcinoma.

E.   Omental nodule:  Serous carcinoma.

F.   Omentum:  Serous carcinoma.
