Episode No:  96C259313O
9602593.DIO

ZULKOWSKI, Chi Georgine 
Lab No:  96C25931
Roseglen
BACCHUS MARSH  VIC  2258
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  17/1/2003
Sex:  F
Collected: 9/10/2063 at :
Location:  MACQUARIE WARD - BARALABA HOSPITAL
DR Kiesha Gracia LIEGLER
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
ADDITIONAL REPORT (9/2/63)

CLINICAL:
Laparotomy.  Debulking procedure.  Tumour debulking of recurrence of ovarian cancer 23yrs ago.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Pelvic peritoneum" specimen received fresh for frozen section and consists of one piece of tissue measuring 50 x 15 x 10mm with multiple small nodules measuring up to 6mm in maximum diameter.  Two small nodules are sampled for frozen section.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section; 2 & 3 - rest of frozensection.  
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Papillary serous carcinoma.  Adenocarcinoma.  
Result to Surgical Fellow at 3.40pm by Dr Z Buzard 
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Left peritoneal side wall nodule" consists of anodular piece of tissue measuring 45 x 40 x 15mm.  On sectioning there is a large nodular gritty mass.  Representative sections 1 block.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of a large piece of omentum with multinodular appearance.  On sectioning multiple white gritty nodules are identified.  Representative sections 2 blocks.  (GM/ta  9/11/63)  ;3 to 7 - five more representative sections from omentum.
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Nodule sub umbilical " consists of a nodular piece of tissue 30 x 20 x 10mm.  The cut surface is white and gritty.  Representative sections in 1 block. 
E.  Specimen labelled "Peritoneal nodule" consists of multiple nodular pieces of tissue measuring up to 10mm.  The cut surface is white, solid and gritty.  Representative sections in 1 block. 
F.  Specimen labelled "Tumour descending colon" consists of a large nodule measuring 50 x 40 x 20mm.  The cut surface is white, solid with gritty consistence.  Representative sections 1 block. 
G.  Specimen labelled "Rectal sigmoid colon and pelvic tumour" consists of an orientated segment of colon measuring 210mm (proximal to distal) x up to 70mm in maximum diameter.  The pericolic fat is multinodular.  The mucosal surface of the colon is unremarkable.  On sectioning the pericolic fat has multiple white and gritty nodules.  Two representative sections in 2 blocks.  
H.  Specimen labelled "Liver capsule lesion" consists of a nodular piece of tissue 20 x 15 x 10mm.  The cut surface is white andgritty.   AE 1 block.
I.  Specimen labelled "Duodenal nodule" consists of a nodular piece of tissue 10 x 10  x 7mm.  Representative sections in 1 block. 
J.  Specimen labelled "Terminal ileum and caecum" consists of a segment of looped  terminal ileum and caecum measuring 250mm in length and up to 70mm in maximum diameter.  On sectioning the pericolic fat has multiple white, firm nodules.  The mucosal surface of the terminal ileum and the caecum is unremarkable.  Onsectioning the nodules of the pericolic fat are white gritty and solid.  Representative sections in 4 blocks (1 - small bowel, 2to 4 large bowel).  
K.  Specimen labelled "Donut" consists of a donut of intestinemeasuring 5mm in length and up to 15mm in maximum diameter.  AE 1 block.  (JO/ta  9/11/63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Z Brokke): 
A to F, H and I. Sections show deposits of well differentiated serous adenocarcinoma within fat and also on the peritoneal surface.The lesion is composed of papillae lined by columnar tumour cells with mild to moderate atypia, surrounded by desmoplastic stroma.  Numerous psammoma bodies are seen.
G. Sections show well differentiated serous adenocarcinoma in pericolic fat.  The lesion is abutting the muscularis propria.  There is no evidence of direct invasion into the bowel wall.
J. Sections show differentiated serous adenocarcinoma. The lesion has invaded through the muscularis propria, into the submucosa of the terminal ileum. Invasion into the muscularis propria of the caecum is also present.
K. Sections show a microscopic deposit of well differentiated serous adenocarcinoma, measuring 1.5 mm, in the pericolic fibroadipose tissue.
Shown to Dr KATHRYN Tehney.
DIAGNOSIS:
A to J. Pelvic peritoneum, left peritoneal side wall nodule, omentum, sub-umbilical nodule, peritoneal nodule, descending colon, recto-sigmoid: and pelvic tumour, liver capsule and duodenal nodule: 
- Well differentiated serous adenocarcinoma
K. Donut: microscopic deposit of well differentiated serous adenocarcinoma in pericolic tissue

ADDITIONAL REPORT (18/9/63)
Immunohistochemistry performed on request by MDT:
ER:   Positive
	100 % of nuclei stained
	predominant intensity of staining:  strong
PR:   Positive
	20 % of nuclei stained
	predominant intensity of staining:  moderate
ADDITIONAL REPORT (9/2/63)

Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.

