Episode No:  16X3666450
169366.RLN

SCHOUTEN, TUAN 
Lab No:  16X36664
Tableer
YOUNG  Queensland  1430
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  19/10/1998
Sex:  M
Collected: 18/7/2062 at :
Location:  3/9 JENNIE COX CLOSE-ALEXANDRA DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR Alphonso KIP YAGI
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (1.8.62):


CLINICAL:
Pelvic tumour.  Leg swelling.  ? Sarcoma.  Orientation was confirmed with Dr Terry Cano, Surgical Registrar: the specimen is from the left iliac fossaand includes the external iliac artery and vein.  Also the left inguinal ligament is inferior to the mass. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Pelvic sarcoma; short stitch superficial, long stitch lateral, double stitch deep" consists of a solid mass with three marking stitches as described on the specimen label.  It measures 85mm (lateral to medial) x 110mm (superior to inferior) x 85mm (superficial to deep).  The external iliac artery (90mm long) and the external iliac vein (70mm long) are present at the deep/medial edge of the specimen. The mass has a partial peritoneal surface over the superior/superficial aspect, the peritoneum measuring 85 x 60mm.  There is patchy fatty tissue adherent to the external surface of the mass.  Inferiorly a groove is identified, consistent with the site of the inguinal ligament.  The margins are inked in four colours: superficial red, lateral blue, deep black and medial green. The specimen is serially sliced from superior to inferior. The mass has a fish-flesh/mucoid lobulated cut surface.  It is encircling the artery and abutting the vein.  It abuts allperipheral margins. There is an incomplete rim of fatty tissue surrounding the mass.  
Block 1 - shaved superior arterial  margin; 2 - shaved inferior arterial margin; 3 - shaved superior venous margin; 4 - shaved inferior venous margin; 5 & 6 - representative sections slice 1, the peritonealised surface; 7 & 8 - representative sections slice 1 (superior margin); 9 - slice 2 with no margins (reserved block); 10 - lateral margin slice 2; 11 & 12 - interface of tumour and a vein, slice 3; 13 - superficial margin slice 3; 14 - deep margin of slice 3; 15 & 16 - interface of tumour and the external iliac vein, slice 4; 17 - lateral margin, slice 4; 18 - deep margin, slice 4; 19-27 - slice 5; 28-36 - slice 6; 37 - tumour and external iliac vein, slice 7; 38 - representative section, slice 10 (the presumed site of passage of inguinal ligament); 39 & 40 - representative sections slice 10 (inferior margin).  Please see diagram.  (MT/ec  19.7.62) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr E Shaak):
Sections of the tumour show a relatively uniform appearance throughout.  It is moderately cellular and consists of spindle-shaped cells in a mainly myxoid stroma.  The tumour cells have medium-sized and large, moderately pleomorphic nuclei and wispy eosinophilic cytoplasm.  There are occasional multinucleate tumour cells.  Nuclear chromatin is rather bland but some nuclei have a single prominent nucleolus.  Mitoses number up to around 6/10 HPF.The tumour cells are arranged in short, haphazard fascicles.  No differentiating features are seen with routine staining.
The tumour has an infiltrative appearance, invading fat at the periphery (eg. blocks 6, 7).  There are patches of lymphocytes in the tumour, consistent with tumour obliteration of previous lymph nodes.  Tumour is confirmed to completelysurround the external iliac vein and it replaces the vein wall (blocks 11, 12).  It also partly surrounds the vas deferens near the top end of the specimen (block 12).  Tumour is also confirmed to partially surround the external iliac artery, but the artery wall is intact.
  
Immunostains:
Smooth muscle actin:  Negative
Desmin:  Negative
S100:  Negative
Myogenin:  Negative
Ki-67:  Moderate proliferation index, around 15%
The features are interpreted asmost consistent with a myxofibrosarcoma.  The somewhat plexiform vascular pattern also raises the possibility of a myxoid liposarcoma but there is more marked cytologic atypia than is usually seen in this entity, and no lipoblasts are identified.  The tumour would be FNCLCC grade I (differentiation score 2, mitosis score 1, tumour necrosis score 0).
Tumour is confirmed to extend to just beneath the described peritoneal surface superiorly.  Tumour extends to part of the inked deep (block 30) and inferior (blocks 39, 40) excision margins.  It is also confirmed to come very close to (<0.5mm from) all other excision margins (superficial, medial, lateral, superior adjacent to peritoneum).  
A section of the distal margin of the external iliac vein showstumour involving the vein wall at the margin.  Sections of the proximal and distal margins of the external iliac artery, and the proximal margin of the external iliac vein, are free of tumour but there is tumour in soft tissue adjacent to the distal margin of the artery and the proximal margin of the vein.
Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr E Kaeding.

DIAGNOSIS:
Pelvic tumour:  Myxofibrosarcoma.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (1.8.62):
Cytogenetics has shownstructural abnormalities of various chromosomes, and marker chromosomes with unknown chromosome content.  FISH was preformed to investigate the possibility of gene amplification in the marker chromosomes.  Amplification of the distal DDIT3 probe and MDM2 was detected.  FUS was not rearranged.  This pattern of amplification is most consistent with a diagnosis of well differentiated/ dedifferentiated liposarcoma.
The histology has therefore been reviewed.On review it is now considered that there is abnormal fat around the main spindle cell tumour; this fat has scattered atypical spindle cells in fibrous septa.  Some of this abnormal fat is seen in association with the vas deferens.  It is now considered that the tumour is a dedifferentiated liposarcoma which has arisen in a well differentiated lipoma-like and sclerosing liposarcoma, probably of the spermatic cord.  Thededifferentiated component extends to excision margins, as noted above. 

