
Episode No:  65S292942L
6562929.MFL

Leese, PASQUALE Waugorah 
Lab No:  65S29294,65S29294
Grist Mill
MOURA  Queensland  4852
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  18/4/2011
Sex:  F
Collected: 3/9/2063 at :
Location:  DAYSURGERY UNIT - AYR HOSPITAL
DR Marquitta Krystin CARACSO
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Pelvic mass Ca 125 =575CEA, 0.5.  Complex pelvic mass
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus tubes ovaries" consists of a uterus with attached cervix, left ovary, left fallopian tube and a right sided solid and cystic adnexal mass weighing 455g in total.  The uterus measures 90 x 50 x 35mm.  The anterior uterine serosa appears uniformly smooth while the posterior uterine serosa shows several firm nodular deposits measuring up to 15 x 10 x 5mm. The ectocervix measures 35 x 30mm and has an unremarkable surface.  On sectioning the endometrium is 1mm in maximal thickness while the myometrium is 25mm in maximal thickness. The myometrium contains a single 20mm fibroid.  The anterior peritoneal reflection has a firm pale yellow cut surface.   The right sided adnexal mass measures 100 x 80 x 90mm.  The largest solid component of the adnexal mass is up to 40mm in maximum dimension.  The cystic component measures 100mm in maximum dimension and has a smooth inner lining with no obvious papillary excrescences.  The right ovary and the right fallopian tube are not definitively identified.  The left ovary measures 25 x 15 x 15mm and has a slightly nodular external surface and a firm pale cut surface.  The left fallopian tube measures 60mm in length, 7mm in external diameter.  Representative sections in 32 blocks.
Blocks: 1 to3 - frozen section; 4 to 8 - full LS anterior body and cervix; 9 to 12 - full LS posterior body and cervix; 13 to 19 - right adnexal mass solid component; 20 to 23 - right adnexal mass cystic component; 24 - ?fimbrial end of right fallopian tube; 25 to 28 - left ovary AE; 29 to 32 - left fallopian tube AE.  (Block 13 reserve block).
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Poorly differentiated carcinoma.  
Result to Dr Annonio (anaesthetist) by Dr Russ/Dr Mohorovich on 7/1/13 at 10.35am.
B.  Specimen labelled "Caecal nodule" consists of an irregular and flattened pieceof fatty tissue measuring 70 x 40 x 8mm.  Multiple tumour deposits are present on the serosal surface of the fatty tissue.  Representative sections in 3 blocks. 
  
C.  Specimen labelled "Para-aortic lymph node" consists of an elongated and nodular piece of grey tissue measuring 45 x 20 x 11mm.  Thecut surface has a firm cream appearance.  Representative sections in 3 blocks. 
  
D.  Specimen labelled "Appendix" consists of a vermiform appendix measuring 70mm in length, 8mm in external diameter with attached mesoappendix measuring 60 x 20 x 7mm.  There is a 5mm serosal nodule in the middle third of the appendix.  No other obvious macroscopic abnormalities are identified.   AE from the distal to the proximal end in 9 blocks.
Blocks: 1 & 2 - one LS of tip in each; 3 to 8 - two TS of body in each (block 4 - serosal nodule); 9 - two LS resection margin.
 
E.  Specimen labelled "Omentum" consists of an elongated and flattened piece of omental fat measuring 430 x 90 x 10mm containing multiple tumour deposits measuring from 2 to 10mm across.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.  
(TO: PR;XM/ta 3/10/63) 
  
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr S Akles): 
A. Sections of the right adnexal mass show a poorly differentiated carcinoma with a variable architectural pattern.  Most of the tumour is composed of sheets of highly pleomorphic neoplastic cells traversed by hyalinised fibrovascular septa.  Insular and trabecular patterns of growth were also seen.  In addition, there are areas within the tumour which exhibit gland-like microspaces which often contain mucin.  Cytologically, the neoplastic cells show marked pleomorphism with enlarged vesicular nuclei and eosinophilic nucleoli.  Scattered tumour giant cells as well as large cells with bizarre hyperchromatic nuclei are also seen.  Mitoses and apoptotic cells are present but extensivenecrosis is not a prominent feature. Lymphovascular invasion is identified.  The lining of the cyst wall consists of multilayered epithelium composed of neoplastic cells with similar cytological features as that of the more solid areas. 
The features are of a poorly differentiated Mullerian carcinoma which is difficult to classify.  Some areas have features most in keeping with poorly differentiated serous carcinoma, there are also areas resembling poorly differentiated transitional cell carcinoma, and there is some mucin production.  
There are metastatic tumour deposits on, and deep to, the serosal surface of the anterior and posterior uterus and posterior cervix.  The cervix is otherwise unremarkable.  Some tumour deposits extend into outer myometrium. 
Carcinoma involves the fimbrial end of the right fallopian tube but no carcinoma in-situ is seen in adjacent tubal epithelium.  Tumour is also seen within the lumen of the left fallopian tube but the left tube is otherwise unremarkable.
Several tumour deposits are present in the left ovary, mainly on the serosal surface and in the outer cortex.
The endometrium is atrophic.  The myometrium contains a hyalinised leiomyoma and also shows some adenomyosis.  There is focal endometriosis deep to the uterine serosa.  
B.  Sections show fatty tissue with several serosal deposits of poorly differentiated carcinoma.  There is a small lymph node within the fat and this is freeof tumour.
C.  Sections show alymph node which is enlarged and almost completely replaced by metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.  No definite extranodal spread is seen.
D.  Sections of appendix show several serosal deposits of poorly differentiated carcinoma.  The appendix itself is unremarkable.
E.  Sections of omental fat show multiple deposits of poorly differentiated carcinoma.
Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr S Muccio.




DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes:  Poorly differentiated Mullerian carcinoma of right ovary with metastases to left ovary, uterine serosa and fimbrial end of right tube.
B.  Caecal nodule:  Metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.
C.  Para-aortic lymph node:  Metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.
D.  Appendix:  Serosal deposits of metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.
E.  Omentum:  Metastatic poorly differentiated carcinoma.

