Episode No:  94X314042Q
9493140.LFQ

FRAZE, WILLARD Ned 
Lab No:  94X31404
S Meridian
KALGOORLIE  VIC  5573
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  12/6/1998
Sex:  M
Collected: 13/4/2063 at :
Location:  ACUTECARE WARD-GUNDAGAI DISTRICT HOSPITAL
DR LONNIE Tjilpi RUSSI
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
SCC right ear - neck dissection x2 specimens levels 2-3, short stitch on 2, long on 3.  Right ear lesion.  Frozen specimen EAC anterior and superior.  Tumour posterior ear.  Frozen section of SCM.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Anterior aspect right ear (EAC)" consists of three pieces of soft tissue 3, 3 and 9mm.  AE for frozen section.
Blocks:1 - frozen section tissue AE.
B.  Specimen labelled "Superior aspect right ear (EAC)" consists of two pieces of soft tissue 6 and 15mm.  AE for frozen section.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section tissue AE.
C.  Specimen labelled "SCM" consists of one piece of soft tissue 7 x 5 x 5mm.  Serially transversely section and AE for frozen section.
Blocks:  1 - frozen section tissue AE.
D.  Specimen labelled "Right ear" consists of an excision of right ear and underlying tissue with a suture attached over the pinna.  The specimen measures 85mm (inferior-superior) x 65mm (anterior-posterior) x 45mm (superficial-deep).  There is a nodular roughened tumour in the post-auricular area measuring 65mm (inferior-superior) x 25mm (anterior-posterior).  Also received in the specimen was a separate piece of the nodularroughened tissue 30 x 20 x 15mm.  The anterior margin is inked blue and the posterior margin is inked black.  The cut surface reveals a cream relatively well circumscribed tumour that invades to a maximum depth of 17mm and appears to comeclose to the deep margin. 
Blocks:  1 - superior margin; 2 to 4 - full face of tumour from anterior to posterior; 5 (including posterior) & 6 - representative deep margin; 7 & 8 - representative inferior margin; 9 - tumour for tumourbanking.  
E.  Specimen labelled "Level 1 (1 of 2)" consists of two fragments of tan and fatty tissue 32 and 30mm in maximum dimension.  Two ?lymph nodes 10 and 15mm are identified.  The remainder of the cut surface reveals unremarkable lobular glandular tissue.
Blocks:  1 - ?lymph nodes; 2 & 3 - further representative sections.
F.  Specimen labelled "Level 1??? (2 of 2)" consists of a piece of tan and fatty tissue 66mm in maximum dimension.No definite lymph nodes are identified.  AE two blocks. 
G.  Specimen labelled "Right neck; short tie on 2, long on 3" consists of a piece of tan and fatty tissue 120mm with a long suture attached at one end marking level 3and a short suture at the other end marking level 2.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified in level 2 from 4 to 16mm.  No definite lymph nodes are identified in the area marked level 3.
Blocks:  1 to 3 - nodes from level 2; 4 to 7 - all of tissue from level 3 embedded.
H.  Specimen labelled "Level 5" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue 90mm in maximum dimension.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified from 3 to 15mm.  AE three blocks.    (FN/cc  14/4/63) 
I.  Specimen labelled "?SCC left forearm" consists of two punch biopsies 3mm to a depth of 3mm.  AE 2 blocks.
J.  Specimen labelled "Lesion left post auricular region superior marking stitch" consists of an orientated ellipseof skin 30 x 25mm to a depth of 13mm.  There is a suture attached to one pole marking superior designated 12 o'clock.  There is a raised nodular area 22 x 13mm on the skin which appears clear of all margins.  The 3 o'clock margin is inked blue and the 9 o'clock is inked black.
Blocks:  1 - two TS from 3 to 9 o'clock; 2 - 6 o'clock margin; 3 - 12 o'clock margin.
(EG/bl 14/4/63)

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A & B.  Skeletal muscle.  No evidence of malignancy.
Phone result to Anaesthetist by Dr V Ditmore at 11.40am on 11/2/13.
C.  Skeletal muscle.  No evidence of malignancy.
Phone result to Anaesthetist by Dr V Coriell at 11.45am on 11/2/13.
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr V Inabinet - 15.4.2063)
A.  Sections show fragments of dense fibrocollagenous tissue containing scattered small calibre vessels and nerves. The tissue shows severe diathermyartefact. There is no convincing evidence of malignancy. 
B.  Sections show dense fibrocollagenous tissue and skeletal muscle. There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Sections show dense fibrocollagenous tissue andskeletal muscle. There is patchy dystrophic calcification and patchy moderate diathermy artefact. There is no evidence of malignancy.
D.  Sections show sun damaged skin extending to deep subcutaneous tissue, including skeletalmuscle and cartilage, consistent with origin from ear. There is an ulcerated moderately to poorly differentiated keratinising squamous cell carcinoma, 20mm thick, extending into deep subcutaneous tissue and skeletal muscle. The carcinomais less than 0.1mm from the closest peripheral margin (posterior margin) and focally abuts diathermy artefact at the deep margin (anterior margin = >11mm; superior margin = 11mm; inferior margin = 8.0mm). There is focal perineural invasion. No definite lymphovascular space invasion is seen. 
E.  The three level one lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/3). Sections confirm the presence of unremarkable salivary gland parenchyma. 
F.  The specimen has been examined in its entirety. Sections show mature fibroadipose tissue. No lymph nodes are present for assessment. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
G.  The thirteen level two lymph nodes show no evidence ofmalignancy (0/13). The tissue marked as level three has been examined in its entirety and shows no lymph nodes for assessment.
H.  The nine level 5 lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/9). 
I.  Multiple levels of the skin punch biopsies show extensive dermal fibrosis associated with a vertical proliferation of small calibre vessels and patchy mild chronic inflammation. Deep to the dermal fibrosis is a band of solar elastosis. The overlyingepidermis appears flat, with patchy parakeratosis, and loss of rete pegs. Very occasional plump basal melanocytes with nucleoli are seen, but there is no pagetoid or lentiginous melanocytic proliferation, and these cells are of uncertain clinical significance. The overall features are those of a dermocutaneous scar and are highly suggestive of a previous biopsy site. There is no convincing dysplasia or evidence of malignancy.
J.  Sections show sun damaged skin extending to subcutis. There is a predominantly exophytic squamous cell carcinoma, 5.5mm thick, which extends into deep dermis. The carcinoma is 3.8mm from the closest peripheral margin (12 o'clock margin), 2.2mm from the deep margin and local excision appears complete. No convincing lymph-vascular space or perineural invasion is identified. The adjacent skin shows an actinic keratosis.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Anterior aspect right ear: No evidenceof malignancy.

B.  Superior aspect right ear: No evidence of malignancy. 

C.  SCM: No evidenceof malignancy.

D.  Right ear: Squamous cell carcinoma, present at deep margin and less than 0.1mm from posterior margin.

E.  Level 1 (1 of 2): No evidence of malignancy in three lymph nodes (0/3). 

F.  Level 1 (2 of 2): No lymph nodes identified. 

G.  Right neck: No evidence of malignancy in thirteen level 2 lymph nodes (0/13). No level 3 lymph nodes identified. 

H.  Level 5: No evidence of malignancy in nine lymph nodes (0/9). 

I.  Skin lesion, left forearm: Dermocutaneous scar, suggestive of previous biopsy site (see report).

J.  Skin lesion, left post auricular: Squamous cell carcinoma, clear of margins. Actinic keratosis. 
Please correlate with clinical findings. 







