Episode No:  19G954151F
192954.DND

Mettig, MILLARD 
Lab No:  19G95415
Dalroy
WILLIAMSTOWN  WA  3637
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  1/4/2014
Sex:  M
Collected: 18/03/2013 at 09:17
Location:  ALBURY WODONGA HEALTH - WODONGA CAMPUS
DR LAWRENCE RUDOLPH Pou
Distribution:  DR Tougas, DR Milford,  FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Upper/mid rectal cancer.  Pre op chemo and radiotherapy.  Ultralow anterior resection + distal donut.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.   Specimen labelled "Sigmoid - rectum colon", received partially opened in formalin, consists of a segment of colon measuring 210 x 60 x 65mm. The specimen includes a posterior peritoneal reflection and a radial surgical margin.  The radial margin is inked black, distal margin inked blue and proximal margin inked green. There is a lesion in the distal bowel which measures 40 x 15mm and is located 15mm from the distal margin. The lesion is smooth, indurated and dark brown in colour with puckering of the adjacent mucosa.There is a second area 10mm proximal to the lesion where the mucosal folds appear flattened and oedematous. This region measures 50 x 30mm and is located 70mm from the proximal margin and 65mm from the distal margin.  
Blocks 1-3 - tumour with distal margin; 4 & 5 - tumour with closest radial margin; 6 & 7 - representative tumour at area of deepest invasion; 8 - section of radial margin adjacent to area of deepest invasion; 9 & 10 - section of bowel where the mucosa appears flattened and oedematous; 11 - section of proximal margin; 12 - reserve block; 13 - apical lymph node; 14 - four possible lymph nodes; 15 - five possible lymph nodes; 16 - one lymph node bisected; 17 - five possible lymph nodes; 18 - one lymph node bisected. 
B.   Specimen labelled "Distal donut", consists of an unoriented donut of bowel measuring15 x 15 x 4mm.  Serially sectioned, AE 2 blocks.  (KU/ec 20.5.63) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr D Sandelius) 
A.  The rectosigmoid tumour is an adenocarcinoma showing extensive treatment (chemoradiotherapy) effect. A synoptic report for colorectal carcinoma follows:
SYNOPTIC REPORT FOR COLORECTAL CARCINOMA
Macroscopic Description
Site of tumour: Rectosigmoid.	
Maximum tumour diameter: 40mm (macroscopic).
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end: 15mm.
Tumour perforation: No.
Relation of tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection: Below.
Microscopic Description
Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
The carcinoma shows extensive treatment (chemoradiotherapy) effect. The tumour bed is ulcerated and only very occasional small groups of viable adenocarcinoma are present. The surrounding stroma shows variable fibrosis with fibrinoid change of blood vessels. There are scattered multinucleated giant cells and granulomas suggestive of regressed tumour. 

Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate.
Local invasion
pT1	Limited to submucosa.
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved.
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not involved.
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin: 10mm.
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: Fourteen. 
Number of lymph nodes involved: None.
One of the lymph nodes contains a sinusoidal collection of bland histiocytes (A15) - seen with Dr D Chadek.
pN0 - No evidence of metastatic carcinoma. 
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent.
Perineural invasion
Absent.
Histologicallyconfirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically.
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour.
Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Grade 1 (moderate response) - Single cells or small groups of cancer cells.
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
No tumour is present on the immunohistochemical stained sections and there is insufficient tumour for assessment of microsatellite instability.
pTNM Stage - TNM 7th Edition = 1
(y)pT1N0MxR0	
B.  Sections show fragments of bowel wall showing patchy mild active inflammation. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Sigmoid - rectum: Rectosigmoid adenocarcinoma, pTNM Stage 1, showing extensive neoadjuvant therapy effect. Fourteen lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy. Margins appear clear. 

B.  Distal donut: Patchy mild non-specific active inflammation. No evidence of malignancy.


