
Episode No:  20K412261E
2034122.QEE

ETTISON, BRODY 
Lab No:  20K41226
Mountville
LEIGH CREEK  New South Wales  3542
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  26/2/2031
Sex:  M
Collected: 17/12/2013 at 12:10
Location:  DICKINSON 2 SOUTH-NEWMAN HOSPITAL
PRO JAMES Lawrence Bevell
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
HISTORY:  
Peritonectomy.  Previous appendix tumour.  Now much appendix stump left, is the first degree tumour of the appendiceal stump.  Ileocolic LN.
MACROSCOPIC:  
A.  "PERITONEAL TUMOUR, SPLEEN, RECTUM, GALLBLADDER, RIGHT COLON, OMENTUM".  Omentum, pieces of peritoneum, gallbladder, segment of colon, right hemicolectomy and spleen.  
The right hemicolectomy specimen measures 140mm in length with terminal ileum 30 mm in length and caecum and right colon 100 mm long.  The terminal ileum mucosa shows nodular lymphoid hyperplasia with multiple small polyps up to 2 mm diameter. 
There is no appendix stump seen. There are surface nodulardeposit of mucinous tumour over the colon, ileum and caecum. Eight mesenteric lymph nodes are present from 3 mm to 10 mm. On the surface of the inferior part of caecum is an 8 mm  granular nodule ?appendix stump. (38 two sections of ?stump); (1 proximal margin; 2&3 terminal ileum; 4&5 caecum with mucinous lesion on the serosal surface; 6 distal margin; 7 3 nodes; 8 2 nodes; 9-11 one node each)
A separate segment of colon measures 120mm in length. There aredeposits mucinous tumour seen on the serosal surface of the bowel and the mesentery. (12,13 cut margins; 14-17 lesions mesentery; 18&19 bowel surface lesions)
The gallbladder measures 80x30x25mm.  There are mucinous deposits over the proximal surface.  The gallbladder is otherwise unremarkable.  (20 proximal margin; 21 neck; 22 body; 23 fundus).
The spleen measures 120x95x50mm.  There are depositss of mucinous tumour over the capsular surface.  Specimen weighs 259g.  No parenchymal lesions are seen.  (24-27 spleen with surface mucin deposits [block 25 tumour reserve block])
Omentum measures 470x300x50mm and is expanded by mucinous tumour. (28-32 omentum). The pseudomyxoma deposits are firm andconsist of confluent tightly packed small rounded areas of mucin 1-2mm with intervening fibrous tissue
Multiple pieces of peritoneum measuring in aggregate 240x230x70mm which have surface  mucin. (33-37 peritoneum)
B.  "ILEOCOLIC LYMPH NODE".  An 8 mm piece of tissue, bisected. AE (2-1/WU/ank)
MICROSCOPIC:  
A.  Residual appendix stump tissue was not identified. There is extensive involvement of all peritoneal organs by mucinous neoplasm (pseudomyxoma peritonei).  The mucinous neoplasm is of moderate cellularity with epithelium surrounding or present within most rounded nodules of mucin.  The epithelium shows moderate grade nuclear atypia. The epithelium has mainly eosinophilic cytoplasm. Cells have oval to columnar nuclei with nuclear grooves and irregularitty and there are atypical larger nuclei present. The mucinous neoplasm involves surface of small bowel, colon, gallbladder, spleen, peritoneum, omentum, and a thin strip of liver in one piece. The volume of tumour is moderately extensive.  Sampled lymph nodes are negative for tumour. 
- Mucinous peritoneal tumour features:
Epithelium inmucin deposits: Present
Cellularity of mucin deposits (amount of epithelium): Moderate 
Architecture of neoplastic epithelium: Focally complex, with tufted and papillary structures
Cytologic atypia of neoplastic epithelium: Moderate
Mitoses: Few presentring cells in mucin: Absent
Signet ring cells in tissue: Absent
Desmoplastic stromal reaction: focally present
Parenchymal invasion: Absent
Comment:
A binary scheme has been proposed for grading appendiceal pseudomyxoma peritonei, with all tumours with significant spreadbeyond right lower quadrant (bona fide pseudomyxoma) termed mucinous carcinoma peritonei (low grade versus high grade). This low/high grade stratification is similar to Ronnett scheme and WHO.  Tumours with intermediate or hybrid features (PMCA-Intermediate -Ronnett) are grouped with low grade tumours in the Bradley scheme in view of similar behaviour in their series, and in a later series (Chua 2012), but less favourable behaviour was described in the earlier Ronnettseries for this intermediate group.
This type of tumour would generally but not exclusively be of appendix origin. From the sections available from the previous appendicectomy from 19/12/2060, although there is a small mucosal probable adenomatous lesion presentin one of the sections (see separate review), it would be difficult to definitely conclude that this was the primary lesion histologically. The peritoneal mucinous neoplasm epithelium is more eosinophilic and not very similar to the smallatypical focus in the appendix. Clinical correlation recommended. 
B.  The lymph nodes arenegative for tumour (0/1).
DIAGNOSIS:  
A, PERITONECTOMY (REMOVAL OF PERITONEAL TUMOUR, SPLEEN, RECTUM, GALLBLADDER, RIGHT COLON, OMENTUM) -  
- Low grade mucinous carcinoma (pseudomyxoma) peritonei with intermediate features (Bradley 2006); (broadly equivalent to peritoneal mucinous carcinomatosis - intermediate; Ronnett); organ of origin uncertain (?appendix ?other); see comments.
B.  ILEOCOLIC LYMPH NODE - 
- lymph node negative for tumour (0/1).
25/2/63, F Letsche.  

