
Episode No:  85W249312E
8582493.EGE

SZCZEPKOWSKI, Blaine Chere 
Lab No:  85W24931
Hunsaker
WATTLEGLEN  New South Wales  3573
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  17/9/2025
Sex:  F
Collected: 21/7/2064 at :
Location:  DARLING POINT - ESPERANCE MULTI PURPOSE CENTRE
DR Tonita YUK ARRINGTON
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
SCC of cervix.  Now 6/52 post partum.  G3P3 with SCC of cervix.   Right common iliac lymph node.  Right tube, right common iliac node, left tube, left para-aortic node, right obturator node, uterus and cervix, appendix.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right common iliac lymph node" consists of a piece of fatty tissue measuring 50mm in maximum dimension.  A 45mm lymph node is identified with a pale cream cut surface through the centre.  Three TS taken for frozen section.  
Blocks: 1 - frozen section; 2 & 3 - remainder of lymph node.  AE. 
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma.
Result to Dr W Randhawa by Dr Coral Semo at 11:19am on 19/5/14.  
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Uterus and cervix" consists of a uterus with attached cervix weighing 149g in total.  The uterus measures 95 x 65 x 40mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 27 x 25mm and has an irregular area in the centre measuring 15 x 15mm.  Anteriorly there is a vaginal cuff measuring 15 x 20mm and posteriorly there is a vaginal cuff measuring 55 x 18mm.  Posteriorly the tumourappears to invade to a depth of 6mm over a total wall thickness of 19mm and is 20mm clear of the vaginal cuff margin.  Anteriorly the tumour appears to invade to a depth of 7mm overa total wall thickness of 10mm.  Anteriorly the tumour is 15mm clear of the vaginal cuff margin.  There is a cream polypoid area at the junction of the anterior endocervix with the lower segment; this measures 15 x 7mm.  There is another 5mm polyp in the posterior lower segment.  The endometrium is otherwise 2mm in maximal thickness over a total wall thickness 22mm.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 to 11 - posterior cervix AE from left to right;12 to 15 -  continued full face of posterior body and cervix (small polyp in block 12); 16 to 26 - entire anterior cervix embedded from left to right; 27 to 30- continued full face of body and cervix; 31 & 32 - anterior ?polyp.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Right fallopian tube" consists of a fallopian tube measuring 42mm in length with a maximum external diameter of 10mm.  The tube is unremarkable.  Representative sections in 1 block. 
   
D.  Specimen labelled "Left fallopian tube" consists of a fallopian tube measuring 45mm in length with a maximum external diameter of 10mm.  The tube is unremarkable.  Representative sections in 1 block. 
 
E.  Specimen labelled "Left para-aortic lymph node" consists of a piece of fatty tissue measuring 90mm in maximum dimension.  Four lymph nodes are identified from 15 to 60mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks: 1 to 4 - one large lymph node seriallysectioned; 5 - one lymph node serially sectioned; 6 - one lymph node serially sectioned; 7 - one lymph node serially sectioned.
F.  Specimen labelled "Right obturator lymph node" consists of a piece of fatty tissue measuring 55mm in maximum dimension.  Two lymph nodes are identified measuring 25 and 30mm.  Both lymph nodes appear to be involved by tumour macroscopically.  
Blocks: 1 & 2 - representative one node; 3 - representative other node.  
    
G.  Specimen labelled "Appendix" consists of an appendix measuring 7mm in length with a maximum external diameter of 9mm.  There is mesoappendix attached measuring 55 x 20 x 10mm.  The maximum thickness of the wall is 3mm.  Blocks: 1 - tip; 2 - mid third; 3 - shave resection margin proximal third.  AE.  
(TO: TB/ta 22/7/64) 
  
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr W Al-jaber): 
A.  Sections show a lymph node which is extensively involved by metastatic poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma.  The maximum diameter of the nodal involvement is around 42mm.  There is lymphovascular invasion in the capsule of the node and in fat adjacent to the node.  There is no definite extranodal spread.
B.  Sections of the cervix show a circumferential poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma.  There is prominent, widespread lymphovascular invasion.  No perineural invasion is seen.  Maximum depth of cervical stromal invasion is 14mm out of a total cervical stromal thickness of 15mm.  Tumour extends into the vaginal cuff deep to overlying normal squamous epithelium and also extends well up into the upper endocervix.  The total tumour length is around 40mm.  focally extends to the vaginal cuff margin on the right side laterally (right fornix) (block B11).  Tumour showing lymphovascular invasion extends almost to the right posterior deep stromal cervical margin focally (block B10).  One small lymph node is identified in right posterior paracervical soft tissue and this is involved by tumour.   
There is CIN 3 over the surface of the tumour in the upper endocervix.  The remaining endocervical glandular epithelium doesnot show any significant abnormality.  
Sections of the endometrium show that this thin and inactive.  Vessels within the myometrium show changes consistent with recent pregnancy. The myometrium is otherwise unremarkable.  Sutures and other changes related to a recent caesarean section are noted in the anterior lower uterine segment.  The described posterior lower segment polyp is a benign endocervical polyp.  The described anterior polypoid area is related to the recent caesarean section wound. 
C, D.  Sections show unremarkable fallopian tubes. 
E.  Sections show metastatic poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma involving three out of four (3/4) lymph nodes.  One nodal deposit measures 10mm, a second 8mm and the third node has only very focal involvement.  Lymphovascular invasion is noted in adjacent fat.  There is no extranodal spread.   
F.  Sections show metastatic poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma in two out of two (2/2) lymph nodes.  Tumour in the involved nodes measures around 20 and 25mm in main dimension.  Lymphovascular invasion is noted in adjacent fat. There is no extranodal spread.   
G.  Sections show an unremarkable appendix.  
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Right common iliac lymph node:  Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (1/1). 
B.  Uterus:  Poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of cervix.  Metastasis in one small paracervical lymph node (1/1).
C.  Right fallopian tube:  No abnormality seen. 
D.  Left fallopian tube:  No abnormality seen.  
E.  Left para-aortic lymph nodes:  Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in three lymph nodes (3/4).
F.  Right obturator lymph nodes:  Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in two nodes (2/2). 
G.  Appendix:  No abnormality seen. 

