
 4237694.RIL
Damann, ARON
42J76946

Last edited : 16/9/2064		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
EndometrialCa, BSO.  Abdo hysterectomy 21-5-14.  Right tube and ovary.  Left tube and ovary.  Hernial sac.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right tube/ovary" consists of a right ovary with adherent fallopian tube measuring 45 x 30 x 28mm in total.  There is adherent fat measuring 55 x 20 x 8mm.  The fallopian tube cannot be separated from the ovary.  The ovary/fallopian tube complex is AE in 7 blocks.
Blocks:  1 - fallopian tube fimbria end, two LS; 2 to 6 - ovary and fallopian tube; 7 - end of ovary with attached fat.
B.  Specimen labelled "Left tube + ovary" consists of a fallopian tube and ovarian complex measuring in total 60 x 45 x 35mm.  The fallopian tube is matted onto the ovaryand the surrounding tissue is covered by haemorrhage.  Representative sections in 7 blocks.
C.  Specimen labelled "Incisional hernial sac" consists of a membranous piece of grey smooth lined tissue measuring 80 x 75 x 10mm.  There are small aggregates of fat adherentto the tissue.  One side is smooth lined and the opposite is ragged.  No firm nodules are identified within the tissue.  Representative sections in 6 blocks.
(TO: WH; OU/rt 13.9.64)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr JESUSITA Zehring):
A. Sections show suture granulomas along the serosal surface of the Fallopian tube and in the mesosalpinx. A follicle, corpus luteum and benign inclusion cysts are seen within the ovarian stroma. There is no evidence of malignancy.
B. Sections show suture granulomas along the serosal surface of the Fallopian tube and in the mesosalpinx. An organising corpus luteumis seen within the ovarian stroma. There is no evidence of malignancy.
C. Sections show fibrofatty tissue which is lined by a flat layer of bland mesothelial cells along one surface. There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Right tube/ovary: Suture granulomas. There is no evidence of malignancy.
B. Left tube/ovary: Suture granulomas. There is no evidence of malignancy.
C. Incisional hernial sac: Features consistent with a hernial sac. There is no evidence of malignancy.

