
Episode No:  69Q064458A
696064.MOW

EHRISMAN, GREGORY 
Lab No:  69Q06445
North Sherwood
GRIFFITH  WA  2007
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  15/2/2029
Sex:  M
Collected: 15/06/2014 at 15:03
Location:  MOLECULAR DIAGNOSTIC ONCOLOGY-MOURA HOSPITAL
DR Kade DELMAR INSCHO
Distribution:  
CLINICAL:
CRC.  Liver METS.  Rt hemi hepatectomy.  Left lateral resection.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Liver right lobe" consists of a lobe of liver measuring 150 x 90 x 60mm.  The cut surface reveals four tan and predominately necrotic deposits measuring 6, 8, 10 and 18mm in maximum dimension.  One tumour abuts the capsular surface.  The closest tumour to the surgical resection margin is 9mm.  The remainder of the liver isunremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 - tumour and capsule surface; 2 - biggest tumour; 3 - tumour to resection margin; 4 - uninvolved liver.
B.  Specimen labelled "Liver left lobe" consists of a lobe of liver measuring 160 x 85 x 60mm.  On the capsular surface there is an irregular cream coloured area measuring 40 x 35mm.  The specimen was received with an incision made through this area.  The cut surfaces show two deposits of cream and predominately necrotic tumour measuring 45 and 10mm in maximum dimension.  The larger deposit abuts the capsular surface and was incised prior to specimen receipt, as noted.  The second lesion is 10mm from the larger tumour.  The distance from the surgical resection margin is 20mm.  There is also a small pale area, 3mm diameter, on the capsular surface; this does not appear to invade into the liver.  
Blocks: 1 - two areas of tumour deposit; 2 - large tumour deposit to resection margin; 3 - cream area on capsule.
C.  Specimen labelled "Gallbladder" consists of a gallbladder received intact measuring 90mm in length with a maximum external diameter of 35mm.  The serosa is unremarkable.  The maximum thickness of the wall is 3mm.  The mucosa is unremarkable.  No gallstones are identified.  
Blocks: 1 - body; 2 - fundus; 3 - shave cystic duct margin and neck.  (ZG/ta 18/8/64)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Q Brinckerhoff):
A.  Sections show liver tissue with deposits of metastatic moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, consistent with metastases from colon/rectum.  The tumours are extensively necrotic and the necrotic tissue shows some dystrophic calcification.  Some groups and cords of apparent viable tumour cells are identified in each of the sampled deposits.  One deposit extends to just beneath the capsular surface butno tumour is seen on the peritoneal surface.  No lymphovascular invasion is identified.  The hepatic resection margin is confirmed to be free of tumour.
A section of liver away from the tumour deposits shows some mild nonspecific changes including mild centrilobular congestion and mild cholestasis.  Thereis no significant inflammatory infiltrate.  With special stains there is no significant fibrosis, there is no increase in stainable iron in hepatocytes, no alpha-1-antitrypsin globules are seen, a rhodamine stain for copper is negative, and an orcein stain for hepatitis B surface antigen is negative.
B.  Sections show liver tissue with deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma.  The subcapsular deposits has scattered cords of residual apparent viable tumour cells but most of the nodule is necrotic.  No tumour is seen on the capsular surface.  No lymphovascular invasion is identified.  The resection margin is confirmed to be free of tumour.  The smaller deposit consists of extracellular mucus and necrotic material with infiltration by macrophages; only occasional degenerate appearing tumour cells are identified in this deposit.  The described small cream coloured area on the liver capsule is an area of old, densefibrosis; no tumour is seen in relation to this nodule.
C.  Sections show gallbladder wall.  The mucosa is intact and no abnormality is seen.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Liver right lobe:  Deposits of metastatic adenocarcinoma.
B.  Liver left lobe:  Metastatic adenocarcinoma.
C.  Gallbladder:  No abnormality seen.  

