
Episode No:  25F828623H
252828.QGI

EUSTICE, Von REINALDO 
Lab No:  25F82862,25F82862
Huggins
POINT VERNON  Western Australia  3166
Specimen: Washings,Tissue
D.O.B:  12/12/1987
Sex:  F
Collected: 11/08/2014 at 09:23
Location:  PARKES 4 EAST - BORDERTOWN MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
DR OORINDOO ARACELY Seuell
Distribution:  DRJackie, DR LEONARDO,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Pelvic mass.  Hysterectomy + right salpingo-oophorectomy age 56.  Smoke >50 year pack history.  COPD.  Hypertension.  Hypercholesterolemia.  Peripheral vascular disease.  Diverticular disease.  Hiatus hernia.  Recurrent skin lesions SCC/BCC.
Additional history from Dr Stemmer:
Previous hysterectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy - benign. (patient states previous right side but must be left)
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right tube and ovary", consists of an intact ovarian tumour measures 130 x 100 x 70mm with possible dilatedtube measures 100 x 30 x 30mm.  The surface is intact and smooth.  On sectioning the tumour is solid and cystic with thin brown fluids, the solid component represent approximately 60% of the tumour.  Three representative sections for frozen section.  Block 3 involving portion of possible tube.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - frozen section; 4 to 6 - sections of the fallopian tube and tumour; 7 to 22 - sections of the tumour with serosal surface; 23 and 24 - wall of the cyst.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
Poorly differentiated carcinoma involving ovary plus fallopian tube; focal squamous differentiation.  Favour Mullerian primary.  
Phone results to Dr G Schoborg by Dr G Poertner and Dr G Purrington 
at 12:05pm on 11.08.14
B.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measures 240 x 50 x 10mm.  No lesions are identified on the surface.  The specimen is serially transversely sectioned.  The cut surface reveals lobulated yellow parenchyma.  No focal lesions or lymph nodes are identified.  Representative sections in blocks 1 to 3.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Appendix", consists ofan appendix measures 60 x 7 x 5mm.  The attached mesoappendix is 7mm in maximum dimension.  The serosal surface is in tan/brown colour, smooth and shiny.  The cut sections are unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 - tip; 2 - four transverse sections; 3 - base of the appendix.
D.  Specimen labelled "Pouch of Douglas nodule", consists of a piece of tan brown nodule measures 5 x 3 x 3mm.   BAE 1 block. 
E.  Specimen labelled "Right para caval nodule", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measures 20 x 10 x 10mm.  Four nodules/lymph nodes are identified ranging from 5 to 12mm.  
Blocks: 1 - one nodule; 2 - one nodule; 3 - one nodule; 4 nodule.
F.  Specimen labelled "Right external iliac lymph node", consists of a fibrofatty tissue measures 5 x 3 x 3mm.  AE 1 block. 
G.  Specimen labelled "Small bowel nodule", consists of two fibrous tissues7mm each in maximum dimension.  AE 1 block.  (TO: BK;VZ/vo 14.10.64)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr G Gearan):
A.  The specimen has been extensively sampled.  Sections show a epithelial predominant malignant mixed mullerian tumour (MMMT) centred within and replacing much of the right ovary, but also involving and expanding the lumen andwall of the right fallopian tube.  The tumour is predominantly (approximately 90%) composed of high grade serous carcinoma, however, a minority of the tumour (<5%) is associated with malignant stroma (A21) and by convention is classified as a MMMT.  No heterologous stromal differentiation is seen.  Approximately 10% of the tumour is poorly differentiated or shows clear cell differentiation (e.g. A20). A minute component of the tumour, sampled for frozen section showspossible squamous differentiation, however, no convincing endometrioid component is seen.  The carcinoma displays papillary, micropapillary and trabecular architecture and is composed of mitotically active cells with high grade nuclearfeatures.  There are extensive areas of necrosis.  The tumour extends very close to but does not appear to penetrate the serosal surface.  There is associated surface haemorrhage and mesothelial proliferation.  The carcinoma involves thewall of the fallopian tube it expands much of the lumen.  The fimbrial end of the tube is not identified.   No lymphovascular invasion is seen.
B.  Sections show mature adipose tissue.  Three (3) minute lymph node show reactive changes only.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  The specimen has been entirely embedded and examined.  Sections of appendix show no significant abnormality.
D.  The specimen has been entirely embedded and examined.  Sections show  nodular fibrous tissue with central cystic degeneration,extensive dystrophic calcification,  possible fat necrosis and a mild patchy chronic inflammation.  There is peripheral fibroadipose tissue and a focal surface reactive mesothelial proliferation.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
E.  Two of four (2/4) lymph nodes contain metastatic serous carcinoma.  The deposits measure 5.5 and 8mm in dimension.  No extranodal extension is seen.  No clear cell component or malignant stroma is seen.
F.  One (1)lymph node shows reactive changes only.  There is no evidence of malignancy (0/1).
G.  The specimen has been entirely embedded and examined.  Sections show diathermy affected fibromuscular tissue.  There is acute haemorrhageand a predominantly perivascular neutrophilic inflammation which is presumably surgical.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSES:
A.  Right tube and ovary, right fallopian tube:  
-  Epithelial dominant malignant mixed mullerian tumour with predominantly high grade serous differentiation, minor component of poorly differentiated and clear cell carcinoma; centred in and replacing the right ovary, involving the wall and lumen of the right fallopian tube; no tumour identified on the serosal surface.
B.  Omentum:  No significant abnormality; three small negative lymph nodes (0/3)
C.Appendix:  No significant abnormality.
D.  Pouch of Douglas nodule:  Fibrosis and dystrophic calcification; no evidence of malignancy.
E.  Right paracaval lymph nodes:  Two of four lymph nodes containing metastatic high grade serous carcinoma (2/4); no extranodal extension seen.
F.  External iliac lymph node:  One negative lymph node (0/1).
G.  Small bowel nodule:  Haemorrhagic fibromuscular tissue; no evidence of malignancy.  

