
Episode No:  16G511523O
1625115.FIO

GROCHOWSKI, VIANNE PURA 
Lab No:  16G51152
Inverchapel
DARWIN  Queensland  1715
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  4/7/2031
Sex:  F
Collected: 02/11/2014 at 12:32
Location:  PRINCE OF WALES PRIVATE-KALEEYA HOSPITAL
DR TED Alycia DYL
Distribution:    NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (25.1.64):


CLINICAL:
1.Right frontal lobe tumour ?Glioma.  G1P0 DCDA twins.  
2.  Left frontal lobe after subfalcine herniation.   
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right frontal tumour ?glioma" consists of multiple fragments of tissue measuring 1 to 3mm, and 8 x 5 x 3mm in aggregate.  AE.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section deblocked; 2 - rest of specimen AE.
FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
GBM.
Result to Dr E Meli by Dr E Philpott at 14:45 on 2/11/14.  
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Right frontal lobe tumour ?glioma" consists of two large pieces of intact cerebrum measuring 50 x 30 x 22mm and 55 x 32 x 20mm.  The resection marginis inked black.  There are also fragments of gelatinous translucent to cream coloured tissue measuring in aggregate 50 x 50 x 10mm.  
Blocks: 1 & 2, 3 & 4 - (paired blocks) one TS through larger piece of intact cerebrum; 5, 6 & 7 - one TS through smaller piece of intact cerebrum; 8 to 10 - representative sections of fragments.  
C.  Specimen labelled "Left frontal lobe 2 MP after subfalcine herniation" consists of a ragged piece of cream tissue measuring 35 x 20 x 13mm.  The cut surface shows areas of grey and white matter with brown pigmented ?haemorrhagic areas.  AE 3 blocks.   (TO GQ:  DY/ta 5/1/64) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr E Deharo): 
A.   Sections show pieces of tumour tissue. The tumour is cellular, consisting of sheets of cells with large, pleomorphic and hyperchromatic nuclei and generally scanty eosinophilic cytoplasm.  Mitoses are very frequent, numbering up to around 15 per high power field, including abnormal forms.  There is prominent palisadedtumour necrosis.  The appearances are of glioblastoma (WHO grade 4).  
B.  Sections of the described smaller fragments show pieces of tumour tissue with prominent mitotic activity and palisaded necrosis, similar to specimenA.  Some of the tumour cells are multinucleate with prominent eosinophilic cytoplasm, with a gemistocytic appearance.  
Sections of the two large pieces of tissue show cerebral cortex and white matter.  Both pieces show involvementby high grade glioma similar to specimen A and this extends to the inked resection margins of the pieces of tissue.  Tumour mainly involves the white matter of both pieces.  
Immunohistochemical stains:
IDH1:   Positive.
GFAP:   Positive.
p53:   Most tumour cells show strong positive staining.
Ki-67:   Overall around 20% but up to 50% in some areas.
Molecular tests:
Tissue will besent to the WERRIBEE MERCY MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAM Centre for MGMT testing.  A supplementary report will be issued.
Block for potential treatment trial (if equired):
Viable tumour with less procedural artefact is best seen in block B2.  
C.  Sections show cerebral cortex and white matter with some overlying meninges.  Most ofthe white matter shows a moderate increase in cellularity, with an infiltrate of cells with atypical, large, irregular and hyperchromatic nuclei. The features are consistent with partial involvement by high grade glioma.  Scattered mitoses are identified but there is no necrosis.  The cortex appears largely uninvolved.  

DIAGNOSIS:
A.   Right frontal tumour:  Glioblastoma (WHO grade 4). 
B.   Right frontal lobe tumour:  Glioblastoma (WHO grade 4). 
.   Left frontal lobe:  Partial involvement by high grade glioma. 
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (25.1.64):
Tissue was sent to the GUNNEDAH DISTRICT HOSPITAL Centre for MGMT testing.
DNA was extracted from paraffin tissue.  The DNA was bisulphite modified and subjected to pyrosequencing to amplify a region of the MGMT promoter inorder to detect methylation.
The sample was tested twice with the appropriate controls and was found to be methylated (28%) at the MGMT promoter region.
Reported by Dr E Staunton.
Please note that this test was performed in a research laboratory which is not NATA accredited.
 
 

