
 7406316.UDX
Flakes, Nicky Jordan
74C63167

Last edited : 27/1/2064		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Low rectal ca.  Rectum abdominal perineal excision.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Abdominoperineal resection of rectum" consists of an abdominoperineal resection of rectum including anus measuring 190mm in length.  12mm from the anal verge and 30mm from the distal resection margin there is a polypoid and partly sessile tumour measuring 35 x 23mm which appears tooccupy approximately 30% of the circumference of the rectum.  The tumour is located entirely below the anterior peritoneal resection margin.  The tumour appears to be on the antero right aspect of the distal rectum.  The mesorectum appears predominantly intact in the specimen.  The right mesorectum is inked black and the left is inked blue.  Four 2 to 3mm polyps were identified in the rectum from 140mm to 150mm from the proximal resection margin.  The closest polyp to the anal verge is 10mm.  Multiple lymph nodes were identified in the mesenteric and the perirectal fat.
Blocks:  1 - proximal resection margin; 2 to 5 - tumour; 6 & 7 - tumour towards anal verge; 8 - distal resection margin closest to tumour; 9 - further polyps; 10 - one perirectal node bisected;11 - ?further perirectal nodes; 12 & 13 - mesenteric nodes above peritoneal resection margin; 14 to 29 - further representatives rectal fat below peritoneal reflection.  (UW/rt 21.1.64)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr S Chy):
Synoptic Report for Large Bowel Carcinoma
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour:	
Maximum tumour diameter:  35mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:  30mm
Tumour perforation:No
For rectal tumours
Relation of tumour to anterior peritoneal reflection:	  Below
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT2	Invasion into muscularis propria
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends:  Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  Not involved
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  4mm (block 2)
Lymphnodes
Number of lymph nodes present:  5
Number of lymph nodes involved:  0
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Absent
Perineural invasion
Absent
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Four (4) small hyperplastic polyps
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvent therapy
Not assessed (no information is provided)
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
The block best for molecular genetic testing is:  2
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
pT2     pN0     pMX     R0


DIAGNOSIS:
Rectum - Adenocarcinoma.

