
 3558099.YAD
Birkland, LAVERNE JORGE
35P80999

Last edited : 13/8/2064		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Atypical lipomatous tumour ? low grade liposarcoma.  Floor of left posterior triangle (within levator scapulae).  Prior incisional biopsy.  Lipomatous tumour identified extending from base of skull to thyroid cartilage.  Capsular dissection.  Densely adherent to tendon of levator scapulae.  Capsule ruptured on mobilisation.  Macroscopic clear resection. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Lesion left posterior triangle", consists of unorientated piece of fatty tissue measuring 68 x 65 x 35mm.  There is fibrinous material over one half while approximately 40% of the remainder of the surface appears ragged.The cut surface reveals unremarkable fatty tissue with occasional firmer tan and cream areas around the periphery, presumed skeletal muscle.  Representative sections 8 blocks. 
(TO: UK/ec  3.12.64) 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr H Coral)  
Sections show a fatty tumour.There is moderate variability in size and shape of adipocytes.  There is oedema and there is a mild, patchy infiltrate of chronic inflammatory cells.  There is also some fat necrosis with infiltration by macrophages.  No significant cytologic atypia is identified apart from the variability in size and shape of adipocytes.  No definite lipoblasts are identified.  The features are favoured to be those of a benign fatty tumour (lipoma) which has some mild atypical features.  However if confident exclusion of atypical lipomatous tumour/well differentiated liposarcoma is thought desirable than FISH to look for MDM2 amplification may be worthwhile.  
The mass is partly surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule but it appears to extend to part of the inked excision margin (eg blocks 3, 3).  Tumour is seen extending into skeletal muscle, between muscle bundles, in one area near the edge (block 3).  
The slides have also been viewed by Dr H Vire.  
DIAGNOSIS:
Left posterior triangle:  Lipoma with mild atypical features, see text.  

