Episode No:04Y3229060
049322.XCR

CONCATELLI, EMIL 
Lab No:  04Y32290
Markovich
SOUTHPORT    3186
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  20/12/1987
Sex:  M
Collected: 19/01/2014 at 16:17
Location:  Pathology West-WARREN HOSPITAL
DR LANNY Wally Sodervick
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Pancreatic cancer.  Double bypass gallbladder CBD excised.  
Please note further clinical history is obtained from Dr. Fagnan thatthe cystic duct joins closer to the common bile duct margin and stapled line along the main bile duct tree does not represent a true margin.   Patient also has inoperable pancreatic cancer and no pathology is expected from this specimen.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of a piece of omentum measuring 480 x 140 x 20mm.  The serosal surface and the cut surface are unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 to 4 - representative sections.
B.  Specimen labelled "Bile duct and gallbladder" consists of an intact gallbladder measuring 90 x 45 x 30mm.  A cystic duct is noted joining to the main bile duct tree measuring 27mm in length with a diameter of 10mm.  A lymph node is noted adjacent to the common bile duct margin.  The serosal surface of the gallbladder is unremarkable.  The gallbladder is filled with thick bile, no stones present.  Mucosa surface is unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 - TS, common hepatic duct margin; 2 - TS of common bile duct/cystic duct margin;3 - lymph node bisected; 4 - TS of cystic duct; 5 - TS of body; 6 - TS of LS  Please note diagram and macro picture. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Commonhepatic lymph node", consists of a lymph node measuring 20 x 15 x 5mm.  The cut surface of the lymph node is somewhat pale and firm.  
Blocks: 1 and 2 - TS of lymph node.  AE 2 blocks. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Smallbowel", consists of an unorientated segment of small bowel measuring 30mm in length with a diameter of 15mm.  No mesentery is noted.  Rim of one surgical margin inked the other inked red.  The specimen is longitudinally sectioned.  The mucosa surface is unremarkable.  
Blocks: 1 and 2 - LS of the entire segment. 
(TO: VJ;NP/vo 22.3.64) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof C Nath):
A. Sections of the omentum show no significant abnormality. Two negative lymph nodes are also identified.
B. Sections of the cystic and hepatic ducts show fibrosis with almost totally denuded epithelial lining. There is no evidence of dysplasia or malignancy.  
The gallbladder shows no significant abnormality and the lymph nodeis benign.
One negative lymph node is present.
C. Sections show one negative lymph node.
D. Sections of the small bowel wall show mucosa with normal villus to crypt ratio.  There is no increase in inflammatory cells within the lamina propria or surface epithelium.  No granulomas or organisms are identified.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A. Omentum: No significant abnormality. Two negative lymph nodes. 
B. Bile duct and Gall bladder:  No evidence of malignancy.
One negative lymph node. 
C. Common hepatic lymph node: One negative lymph node.
D. Small bowel: No significant abnormality.

