
Episode No:  73I507933J
733507.XKJ

Clopper, Taunya 
Lab No:  73I50793
Birch Knoll
ENCOUNTER BAY  Tasmania  3373
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  30/6/1975
Sex:  F
Collected: 08/11/2012 at 12:03
Location:  CORONARYCARE UNIT-WOLLONGONG HOSPITAL
DR LAVONA GLEN HERGENRETER
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Right hemicolectomy.  Large ascending colon tumour.  Palpable lymph nodes.  Omentum resected en bloc as adherent to tumour.  Resection from TI to prox transverse colon.  T2dm.  Asthma.  
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy" consists of a right hemicolectomy specimen comprising terminal ileum, caecum and ascending colon with attached appendix.  The specimen measures 250mm in length, the segment of terminal ileum is 90mm in length and the segment of caecum and ascending colon is 200mm in length.  At the level of the caecum is a large mass, 70mm (proximal to distal)with a piece of omentum and appendix attached. On sectioning and at the level of the mass is a circumferential and ulcerated tumour, 35mm (proximal to distal), it is located 100mm from the proximal margin, 120mm from the distal margin and 20mm from the ileal caecal valve.  On section, the tumour has a maximum thickness of 50mm and extends through the wall into the omentum.  The tumour extends close to the serosal surface of the omentum but appears clear of the cut margins of the omentum. The rest of the mucosal surface has a smooth and uniform appearance.   
Blocks:  1 - proximal margin; 2- distal margin; 3 to 8 - representativesections from the tumour; 9 & 10 - representative sections from the tumour with appendix; 11 - tumour (reserved block); 12 - three lymph nodes; 13 - three lymph nodes; 14 - two lymph nodes.  (TO: PG; PG/mm 1.11.62) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr S Ahlberg):   
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour: Caecum.
Maximum tumour diameter:   70mm
Distance oftumour to nearer cut end:  100mm
Tumour perforation:     No

Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Poor
Local invasion
pT4b	Tumour directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures (omentum)
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Not applicable.
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  Not applicable
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: 8
Number of lymph nodes involved: 6	
pN2	Metastases in 4 or more regional LN
Lymphovascular invasion
Present (Mural and Extramural)
Perineural invasion
Present (block 9)
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
Adenomas: Absent.
Synchronous carcinomas (complete a separate form for each cancer): Absent
Ulcerative colitis: Absent.
Crohn's disease: Absent.
Other: The tumour is present very close to the opening of the appendix into the caecum.
Residual tumour status
R0	No residual tumour
Response to neoadjuvent therapy - not applicable
Grade 0 (complete response) - No viable cancer cells
Grade 1 (moderate response) - Single cells or small groups of cancer cells
Grade 2 (minimal response) - Residual cancer outgrown by fibrosis
Grade 3 (poor response) - Minimal or no tumour kill; extensive residual cancer
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status - not assessed	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining/loss of nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining/loss of nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining/loss of nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining/loss of nuclearstaining
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
pT4b pN2 pMX R0
CONCLUSION
Caecum: Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma invading through bowel wall into omentum, with metastatic carcinoma in 6 of 8 lymph nodes.

