SPR no: 97X949277X
MRN no: 9799492
Site_name: WERRIBEE MERCY HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportSUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (10.7.65):

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (22.9.69):

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (6.1.68):


CLINICAL:
TAH, BSO omentectomy.  Likely ovarian cancer.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Pelvic mass biopsy&amp;quot;, consists of a 20 x 17 x 10mm cream tissue with a slightly irregular surface.  BAE for frozen section.  A1, and A2.  Remaining tissue AE.
Blocks: 1 - frozen section one; 2 - frozen section two.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A &amp;amp; B.  Serous borderline tumour, pending further sampling.
Result to Dr X Odil by Dr X Levasseur and Dr X Kildare at 10:50am on 22/04/2019

B.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Pelvic mass&amp;quot;, consists of a 200 x 150 x 110mm friable mass with an irregular papilliform and nodular surface.  Sectioning shows mixed papillary, solid and cystic areas.  Three RS for frozen section B1 - B3.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - frozen section one to three; 4 to 20 - RS remaining tissue.

FROZEN SECTION REPORT:
A &amp;amp; B.  Serous borderline tumour, pending further sampling.
Result to Dr X Manard by Dr X Staner and Dr X Swindell at 10:50am on 19/05/2019

C.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Uterus, cervix, sigmoid colon&amp;quot;, consists of a uterus with attached cervix and a segment of sigmoid colon with peritoneum.  The uterus measures 65 x 40 x 23mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface anteriorly and a roughened surface posteriorly.  The ectocervix measures 25 x 25mm and has an unremarkable surface.  It is inked blue anteriorly and black posteriorly.  On sectioning, the endometrium is generally less than 1mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 13mm in maximum thickness.  A 5mm cream nodule is present on the endometrium at the posterior fundus.  The left and right adnexa are both markedly ragged with no macroscopically identifiable ovaries or fallopian tubes.  Attached to the right lower uterine segment and cervix is a sheet-like 100 x 90mm portion of peritoneum which is predominately smooth over the anterolateral surface and ragged on the posterior aspect.  There is a 25 x 15 x 13mm papillary lesion with surrounding foci of calcification on the posterior aspect of the peritoneum.  The sigmoid colon is 190 x 30mm with mesocolon to a maximum width of 20mm.  The serosal surface is roughened with patchy calcification and scattered nodules.  The margins of the bowel are inked: proximal blue and distal black.  On opening, the colonic mucosa is smooth and tan with two firm submucosal nodules in the mid portion.  The first nodule (proximal) is 15 x 15mm and is present 75mm from the nearest surgical margin (distal).  The second nodule (distal) is approximately 12 x 13mm and is 50mm from the nearest surgical margin (distal).  The serosa overlying these nodules has a calcified plaque 20 x 25mm.  The muscularis propria at the proximal colonic margin also appears thickened with scattered foci of calcification.  No mucosal lesion is seen at this site.
Blocks: 1 to 3 - full LS of anterior body and cervix; 4 to 6 - full LS posterior body and cervix (4 - with 5mm cream nodule); 7 to 10 - serial sections of left adnexa; 11 to 14 - RS right adnexa; 15 &amp;amp; 16 - RS peritoneal thickening and papillary lesion; 17 - LS distal colonic margin; 18 &amp;amp; 19 - paired blocks, LS of two submucosal nodules (18 - distal; 19 - proximal with green ink on proximal cut surface); 20 - greatest serosal involvement of colon; 21 - LS of proximal colonic margin with muscularis propria thickening; 22 - possible apical lymph node; 23 - four possible lymph nodes; 24 - four possible lymph nodes; 25 - three possible lymph nodes.

D.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Omentum&amp;quot;, consists of 200 x 95 x 15mm of omental fat containing a 50 x 25 x 30mm firm nodule.  Transverse sectioning through the nodule shows a 20 x 13 x 35mm gritty cream lesion.  Five additional firm nodules are scattered throughout the omentum, 2 to 8mm in maximum extent.  Blocks: 1 &amp;amp; 2 - RS largest nodule; 3 - three firm nodules; 4 - two firm nodules.

E.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Appendix?&amp;quot;, consists of a 70 x 5mm presumed appendix with attached mesoappendix to a maximum width of 15mm.  Both ends are ragged and the specimen cannot be definitely oriented.  Possible base is inked green.  No lumen is identified on sectioning.  From the presumed mid appendix to tip the normal anatomy has been completely effaced by a spiculated cream lesion with a gritty cut surface.  The specimen is serially embedded from block E1 (presumed base) to E5 (presumed tip).

F.  Specimen labelled &amp;quot;Bowel donut&amp;quot;, consists of two irregular full thickness segments of bowel wall, 23 x 13 x 4mm and 40 x 10 x 5mm.  The staple line of the first is removed and it is then trisected longitudinally (two pieces fragmented on sectioning).  The second is bisected longitudinally.  AE 2 blocks.  (TO: KM; KM/ta 24/6/2069)


MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr X Bulcao):
A, B.  Sections show a serous tumour with papillary, micropapillary and cribriform architecture.  The tumour cells have mild and moderate cytologic atypia.  Numerous psammoma bodies are noted.  The tumour is predominantly a low grade serous carcinoma but there is also a component with features of a serous borderline tumour.  A minority of the tumour shows infarct-like necrosis.  No normal ovarian tissue is seen.
C.  A section of the posterior cervix shows deposits of low grade serous carcinoma, with associated dense fibrous stroma, on the serosa.  The cervix is otherwise unremarkable.  Sections of the endometrium show a small endometrial polyp at the fundus.  The endometrium is otherwise inactive and unremarkable.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  Sections show deposits of low grade serous carcinoma, with associated fibrous stroma, on the serosa of the anterior and posterior uterus.
Sections of left adnexal tissue show involvement by low grade serous carcinoma.  The left fallopian tube is identified and is unremarkable but the surrounding soft tissue is extensively involved by low grade serous carcinoma.
Sections of the right adnexa show involvement by low grade serous carcinoma.  The right tube is not identified.
No ovarian tissue is identified in the sections of the adnexae.
Sections of the peritoneum attached to the uterus and colon segment show extensive involvement by low grade serous carcinoma.
Sections of the described submucosal nodules in the colon segment show low grade serous carcinoma on the serosa and invading into muscularis propria and submucosa of the bowel wall.  The proximal and distal excision margins of the colon segment are free of tumour.
Sections of nine lymph nodes which were found in the bowel mesentery show partial involvement of five of these nodes by serous tumour; in the context of the other specimens these deposits are consistent with metastatic low grade serous carcinoma.  Occasional extranodal tumour deposits are also noted in the mesentery.
D.  Sections of omentum show multiple deposits of low grade serous carcinoma.
E.  Sections show fibrofat with extensive involvement by low grade serous carcinoma.  All the tissue has been blocked and no appendix is identified.
F.  Sections of each donut show unremarkable large intestinal wall.  No tumour is seen.
Representative slides have also been viewed by Dr X Gerlock.
DIAGNOSIS:
A, B.  Pelvic mass:  Low grade serous carcinoma.
C.  Uterus and sigmoid colon:  Low grade serous carcinoma involving right and left adnexae, serosa of uterus and posterior cervix, pouch of Douglas peritoneum, wall and submucosa of sigmoid colon, mesenteric lymph nodes (5/9) and mesenteric soft tissue.
D.  Omentum: Low grade serous carcinoma.
E.  ?Appendix: Low grade serous carcinoma, no appendix identified.
F.  Bowel donuts: No tumour.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (6.3.69):
C.  Immunostains for oestrogen and progesterone receptors have been performed as requested.

Oestrogen receptors:   Positive.
100% of tumour cells stain.
Predominant intensity of staining:  Strong.

Progesterone receptors:   Negative.
&amp;lt;1% of tumour cells stain.
Predominant intensity of staining:  Weak.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (19.8.66):
C.  A BRAF immunostain has been performed as requested.
The stain is negative.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (8.11.68):
D.  Stains for mismatch repair enzymes have been performed as requested.

MLH1:   Preserved nuclear staining.
PMS2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH2:   Preserved nuclear staining.
MSH6:   Preserved nuclear staining.

Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI).
