
 849797.YOD
KRAJNIK, SHERLYN PAYTON
84Y79795,84Y79795

Last edited : 25/2/2063		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
84yr old, high grade endometrial carcinoma on curettings.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "In formalin, uterus + cervix bilateral tubes + ovaries", consists of a uterus with attached bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries weighing 78g in total.  The uterus comprises of corpus and cervix measuring 85 x 47 x 35mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 30 x 28mm and has an unremarkable haemorrhagicsurface.  On sectioning there are multiple firm nodular/polypoid cream areas on the endometrial surface of both anterior and posterior uterine wall.  The majority of the nodules are on the posterior over an area of 35 x 35mm, 45mm from the cervical os.  On sectioning the nodules are confined to theupper third of the myometrium.  The endometrium is 4mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 20mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium contains three fibroids ranging from 5mm to 7mm in maximum diameter.  The right fallopian tube measures 40mm in length and 5mm in diameter.  The left fallopian tube measures 40mm in length and 5mm in diameter.  Both fallopian tubes are unremarkable.  The right ovary measures 25 x 12 x 10mmand has an unremarkable cut surface.  The left ovary measures 25 x 13 x 8mm and has an unremarkable cut surface.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - full longitudinal section of anterior body and cervix including tumour; 4 - anterior tumour; 5 to 7 - full longitudinal section of posterior body and cervix; 8 and 9 - tumour; 10 - right fallopian tube; 11 - right ovary; 12 - left fallopian tube; 13 - left ovary; 14 - right parametrial tissue; 15 - left parametrial tissue.
B.  Specimen labelled "Omentum", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 180 x 130 x 10mm.  There are no masses or lymph nodes identified within the omentum.  Representative in 3 blocks.
C.  Specimen labelled "Right external iliac lymph node", consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 40 and 20mm in maximum dimension.  There are lymph nodes identified from 3 to 10mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks: 1 - one lymph node bisected; 2 - lymph nodes.
D.  Specimen labelled "Right common lymph node", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 60mm in maximum dimension.  There are lymph nodes identified from 5 to 12mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks: 1 - one lymph node bisected; 2 - lymph nodes.
E.  Specimen labelled "Right obturator lymph node", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 30mm in maximum dimension.  There is one lymph node identified measuring 15mm in length.  Specimen serially sectioned and AE 1 block. 
F.  Specimen labelled "Left external iliac lymph node", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 35mm in maximum dimension.  There are lymph nodes identified from 5 to 10mm in maximum dimension.  
Blocks: 1 and 2 - lymph nodes.
G.  Specimen labelled "Left common lymph node", consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 15mm in maximum dimension.  There is a lymph node identified measuring 8mm in maximum dimension.  Specimen AE 1 block. 
H.  Specimen labelled "Left obturator lymph node", consists of two pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 8 and 40mm in maximum dimension.  There are lymph nodes identified from 3 to 10mmin maximum dimension.  Specimen AE 2 blocks. 
Blocks: 1 - one lymph node bisected; 2 - lymph nodes.  (ET/vo 20.2.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr V Riffel):
A.  Sections of uterus show a high grade clear cell adenocarcinoma (grade 3).  The carcinoma shows predominantly papillary architecture.   Some of the tumour cells have a 'hobnail' appearance.  The tumour cells are positive for ER and are negative for PR.  The carcinoma is arising within an endometrial polyp and no myometrial invasion is seen.  The tumour is within the uterine corpus and is completely excised.  The endocervix and cervix are unremarkable except focal areas of haemorrhage, in keeping with previous surgery/biopsy.  There is no evidence of lymphovascular invasion.  The rest of endometrium is atrophic and shows no significant abnormality.  The myometrium shows several small leiomyomas.  The uterine serosa is unremarkable.  Both fallopian tubes are unremarkable.  Both ovaries are unremarkable.
B.  Sectionsshow normal appearing omental tissue with no significant abnormality.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
C.  Three (3) lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
D.  Three (3) lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
E.  One (1) lymph node is identified.  The lymph node is unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
F.  Four (4) lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
G.  One (1) lymph node is identified.  The lymph node is unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
H.  Three (3)lymph nodes are identified.  The lymph nodes are unremarkable.  There is no evidence of malignancy.
Representative slides are shown to Dr V Norkus.
DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus, cervix, bilateral fallopian tubes and ovaries - Clear cell adenocarcinoma, completely excised.
B.  Omentum - No significant abnormality.
C to H.  Multiple pelvic lymph nodes - No evidence of malignancy.

