
Episode No:  89P6979499
895697.YMX

MCLARTY, ROLF 
Lab No:  89P69794
Damien
PEREGIAN BEACH  South Australia  4567
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  16/3/2004
Sex:  F
Collected: 23/11/2013 at 19:13
Location:  Envoi Specialist-ROYAL BRISBANE & WOMENS HOSPITAL
DR RUSSEL DICK BRENTZ
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Extensive LCIS.  FHx of bilat breast Ca.  BRCA -ve.  DCIS on core bx, excised - only LCIS.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right breast stitch axilla" consists of a mastectomy specimen measuring 180mm (medial to lateral) x 160mm (superior to inferior) x 85mm (superficial to deep).  There is an overlying oval piece of skin measuring 45 x 50mm including the nipple areola complex measuring 24 x 23mm.  The epidermal surface is unremarkable.  The deep surface contains a membranous area measuring 60 x 50mm located at approximately the9 o'clock position, 90mm from the nipple.  This area may represent the previous surgical cavity.  The remaining breast shows fibrofatty tissue, no discrete lesions are identified.  Deep margin inked black.  Superficial margin inked blue.  Blocks: 1 - nipple; 2 to 5 - cavity with inferior margin from lateral to medial; 6 to 58 - area of presumed cavity embedded from lateral to medial; 59 - tissue lateral to presumed cavity; 60 - tissue medial to presumed cavity; 61 - tissue superficial to cavity; 62 - tissue superior to cavity; 63 to 65 - representative upper inner quadrant; 66 to 68 - representative lower inner quadrant; 69 to 71 - representative upper outer quadrant; 72 to 74 - representative lower outer quadrant; 75- further area of cavity
B.  Specimen labelled "Left breast stitch axilla" consists of a mastectomy specimen measuring 180mm (medial to lateral) x 180mm (superior to inferior) x 70mm (superficial to deep).  There is one suture in situ to mark the axilla.  There is an overlying oval piece of skin measuring 50 x 50mm including the nipple and areola complex measuring 23 x 23mm.  The epidermal surface is unremarkable.  Sectioning reveals fibrofatty breast tissue, no lesions are identified.  
Blocks: 1 - nipple; 2 to 4 - representative upper inner quadrant (block 2 - adjacent to nipple); 5 to 7 - representative lower inner quadrant; 8 to 10 - representative upper outer quadrant; 7 to 13 - representative lower outer quadrant; 14 - intramammary lymph node bisected.
C.  Specimen labelled "Previous surgical cavity right breast" consists of a piece of fatty tissue measuring 50 x 45mm to a depth of 15mm.One side is lined by a membranous surface measuring 50 x 35mm.  The external surface inked black, specimen serially sectioned and AE 14 blocks.   (GD/ta 27/1/63) 

MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof W Peltzer):
A. A total of 75 blocks were examined from the mastectomy specimen, with extensive sampling around the excision cavity. 
The sections of breast tissue show numerous areas of lobular carcinoma in situ, some of which have a Pagetoid growth pattern. E-Cadherin staining is negative.  There is also a background of lobular neoplasia and columnar cell lesions, some of which show cytological atypia. Some ducts show an admixture of Pagetoid LCIS and columnar cell hyperplasia. Occasional small calcifications are present within scattered columnar cell lesions.
Organising scar tissue is present, consistent with previous biopsy and surgery and foci of LCIS are present in the immediately surrounding breast tissue. Foci of atypical ductal hyperplasia are seen around the excision cavity but no diagnostic evidence of residual ductal carcinoma in situ is seen.
Foci of LCIS and ALH are seen at the blue inked superficial margin.
The nipple shows no significant abnormality.
No evidence of invasive malignancy is seen.
B. The sections of breast show extensive lobular carcinoma in situ and atypical lobular hyperplasia. Scattered columnar cell lesions are also present and occasional benign microcalcifications are seen.
The nipple shows no significant abnormality. No intramammary lymph node is identified histologically and the section consists of adipose tissue and fresh haemorrhage.
There is no evidence of invasive malignancy seen.
C. All of the tissue has been embedded. The sections show areas of organising fat necrosis and scar tissue, consistent with previous surgery. Foci of lobular neoplasia are present.
No evidence of residual DCIS or invasive carcinoma is identified.
DIAGNOSIS: 
A. RIGHT BREAST: LOBULAR CARCINOMA IN SITU AND COLUMNAR CELL LESIONS WITH FOCAL ATYPIA
B. LEFT BREAST: LOBULAR CARCINOMA IN SITU AND COLUMNAR CELL LESIONS
C. SURGICAL CAVITY RIGHT BREAST: ORGANISING SCAR TISSUE

