Episode No:  73K664113K
733664.FDJ

LATTANZI, MARCOS 
Lab No:  73K66411
Yampi
KAMBALDA  SA  6712
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  23/12/1985
Sex:  M
Collected: 25/11/2063 at :
Location:  Southern IML-MORNINGTON ISLAND HOSPITAL
DR LORENZO MAHALIA STOTZ
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Sigmoid colon cancer invading into side wall.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Sigmoid colon" consists of an unorientated segment of colon 130mm in length and up to 25mm in maximum diameter.  The external surface shows an area of fibrosis 25mm from proximal to distal.  This area islocated 40mm from one of the surgical margin and 60mm from the opposite surgical margin.  The area of fibrosis is inked green.  On sectioning, there is an endophytic and ulcerated tumour 15 x 10mm. On sectioning the tumour has a maximum thickness of 22mm and macroscopically abuts the surgical margin inked green.  The tumour is located 50mm from one surgical margin and 65mm from the opposite surgical margin.   The rest of the mucosal surface is unremarkable.
Blocks:  1 - surgical margin; 2 to 4 - composite of TS of tumour; 5 & 6 - composite of tumour; 7 & 8 - composite of tumour; 9 - apical node; 10 - four possible lymph nodes; 11 to 18 - representative sections of mesenteric fat with vessels.
B.  Specimen labelled "Additional lateral margin" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue 15 x 5 x 1mm.  AE 1 block.  (TO: NH; EV/rt 25.11.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof S Swagger):
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour: Sigmoid colon	
Maximum tumour diameter:    15 mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:   50  mm
Tumour perforation:     No, although tumour hasinfiltrated through full thickness of bowel wall. 
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT4a	Tumour penetrates the surface of the visceral peritoneum - tumour extends to the inked surface of the pericolic fat and clinically into the side wall (see clinical history). Specimen B, labelled "additional lateral margin" is free of tumour. Deeper levels have been examined. It is difficult to determine histologically whether this represents pT4a or pT4b. 
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin: Involved	

Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: 9	
Number of lymph nodes involved:0 (including apical node)	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Present (Mural) 
Perineural invasion
Present 
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMX	Cannot be assessed histologically
Background abnormalities/other comments
A focus of tattoo pigment is identified next to the carcinoma.
Specimen B shows fibroadipose tissue with crush artifact. Deeper levels have been examined and there isno evidence of malignancy.
Residual tumour status
R1	Microscopic margin involvement - main specimen, but specimen B appears clear.
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Reduced staining (approximately 10% nuclei positive). Uncertain significance.
Comment:
Absence (loss) of nuclear staining for any of the mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSI), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair gene.
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
(y)pT4a     pNo     pMx     R1	





