Episode No:  67I011089R
6730110.XZR

MITTELSTADT, DONN 
Lab No:  67I01108
Mowera
WELLINGTON  Western Australia  7021
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  14/11/1989
Sex:  F
Collected: Unknown at :
Location:  StVincent - BEVERLEY HOSPITAL
DR THEO IRENE NIHART
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
79yr old woman with repeated pap smears stating "Squamous carcinoma" however repeated colposcopy , vaginoscopy, LLETZ and cones never detect any carcinoma.  Total laparoscopic hysterectomy performed, difficult procedure due to adherent bladder.  Thus, extra length of vaginal cuff taken anteriorly and posteriorly.  
1.  Uterus, right tube and possible right ovary (very atrophic) (no left adnexa due to previous surgery).  
2.  Anterior vaginal cuff.
3.  Posterior vaginal cuff in two pieces. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Cervix, uterus, bilateral tubes (?right ovary)" consists of a uterus with attached cervix and right fallopian tube weighing 31g in total.  The uterus measures 55 x 35x 18mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 20 x 15mm and has an unremarkable surface.  There is a ragged diathermied defect from the left anterior to left posterior cervix to lower uterine segment measuring 30 x 10 x 10mm.  The endometrium is 1mm in maximum thickness and the myometrium is 9mm in maximum thickness.  The myometrium is unremarkable.  The anteriorsurface is inked black and the posterior surgical margin blue.  The right fallopian tube is in two pieces.  The proximal fallopian tube measures 10mm in length x 4 x 3mm in maximum diameter.   The distal fallopian tube measures 27mm in length x 7 x 5mm in maximum diameter.  There is no obvious ovary found however there is a white area in the adnexa, ?possible ovary.  
Blocks: 1 to 5 - anterior cervix embedded from right to left; 6 to 11 - anterior body embedded from right to left; 12 & 13 - full LS of posterior body and cervix; 14 to 16 - right posterior cervix;  17 to 19 - left posterior cervix; 20 to 23 - right posterior body; 24 to 26 - left posterior body; 27 & 28 - right fallopian tube AE; 29 & 30 - right adnexal structures.  
  
B.  Specimen labelled "Anterior vaginal cuff" consists of a grey tan piece of tissue measuring 48 x 10 x 10mm.  There is a smooth shiny surface on one side and the opposite side is roughened (surgical).  The surgicalmargin inked black.  AE 10 blocks.
 
C.  Specimen labelled "Posterior vaginal cuff" consists of two pieces of tan tissue, the larger 40 x 15x 7mm and the smaller 15 x 7 x 5mm.  Both pieces have a smooth shiny surface with the opposite surface ragged and disrupted (surgical).  The surgical margin is inked black and the specimen is AE.  
Blocks: 1 to 3 - smaller fragment; 4 to 10 - larger fragment.  
   
D.Specimen labelled "Cervical os polyp" consists of a tan piece of tissue measuring 2 x 1 x 1mm.  AE 1 block.
 
E.  Specimen labelled "Bladder peritoneum" consists of a grey piece of tissue measuring 5 x 3 x 2mm.   AE 1 block.   (GS/ta 12/2/63) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr Q Meierotto): 
A.  The whole cervix and lower uterine segment have been blocked.  Sections from the left posterior cervix show an area of CIN 3 on the ectocervix and extending to the distal diathermied excision margin.  There is no invasion.  The CIN 3 has a pleomorphic, keratinised appearance and the cells have a very similar appearance to those seen in the previous cytology smears(67I01108, 67I01108 and 67I01108).
Some of the surface epithelium of the cervix has been stripped off and changes related to a recent cone biopsy are also noted.  The sections of cervix are otherwise unremarkable.   The endometrium is thin and inactive and the myometrium is unremarkable.  The right fallopian tube is unremarkable.  No ovarian tissue is identified in the right adnexa.
B.Sections show stratified squamous epithelium with underlying tissue.  There is some scaring and mild chronic inflammation, with haemosiderin laden macrophages, consistent with previous surgery.   No other abnormality is seen.  There is no dysplasia. 
C.  Sections show stratified squamous epithelium with underlying tissue.  In much of the larger fragment the surface epithelium shows features of CIN 3; this has a pleomorphic, keratinised appearance, similar to the appearance in the posterior cervix (specimen A).  The CIN 3 extends to the proximal excision margin but the distal margin appears free of involvement.  There is no invasion.  
D.  Sections show a piece of polypoid oedematous granulation tissue.  No epithelium is seen.  There is no evidence of malignancy.  
E.  Sections show mesothelium with underlying fibrofat.  There is some interstitial haemorrhage in the fat.  The appearances are otherwise unremarkable. 
The slides of specimens A and C, together with the previous smears, have been reviewed with Prof Q Zdanowicz. 
DIAGNOSIS:  
A.  Uterus and right fallopian tube:  CIN 3 involving left posterior cervix and extending to distal margin.
B.  Anterior vaginal cuff:  Scarring from previous surgery.
C.  Posterior vaginal cuff:  CIN 3.   
.  Cervical os polyp:  Polypoid granulation tissue.   
E.  Bladder peritoneum:  No significant abnormality. 
 

