Episode No:  61K041617R
613041.RCT

EDMINSTER, SHAREN 
Lab No:  61K04161
Burton Glen
LEIGH CREEK  TAS  2360
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  12/6/1995
Sex:  F
Collected: 03/04/2013 at 13:46
Location:  POST OPERATIVE RECOVERY-CENTRAL HIGHLANDS RURAL HEALTH - KYNETON
DR CALVIN WINFRED REMLINGER
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Recurrent dedif liposarcoma- previous excision (2060) contained osteogenic component.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Stitch: short superior, long lateral, pelvic side wall, tumour right pelvic side wall" consists of a fatty partly encapsulated piece of tissue measuring 55 x 40 x 25mm with two sutures as marked.  One side of the lesion is encapsulated with a smooth capsule.  The oppositeside is roughened with adherent muscle.  The specimen is inked as follows: Blue superficial, green lateral and the rest black. The cut surface shows a grey/tan glistening nodule, 12 x 10 x 15mm, abutting the muscular margin and the lateral margin, surrounded by fatty tissue. The nodule is 12mm from the medial margin and 15mm from the superior margin. AE.  
Blocks:  1 to 3 - superior margin from medial to lateral; 4 to 13 - tumour; 14 to 16 - deep margin embedded from medial to lateral.  See diagram.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Re-excision lateral right pelvis side wall" consists of two pieces of tan tissue measuring 20 x 8 x 4mm and 15 x 8 x 4mm.  AE 1 block.
C.  Specimen labelled "Subcutaneous fat lesion right back" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 42 x 41 x 15mm.  The cut surface shows a uniform fatty appearance.  Representative in 5 blocks.  
D.  Specimen labelled "Intramuscle fat right back" consists of a piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 12 x 11 x 5mm.  AE 1 block.  (TO: MP; UD/mm 6.6.63) 
MICROSCOPIC:  (Reported by Dr R Bernon)
A.  The entire specimen is embedded and examined.  Almost all the specimen comprises well differentiated liposarcoma which is mainly lipoma-like with some intervening sclerosing areas.  The tumour appears partly circumscribed with an overlying thin fibrous pseudocapsule. The lipoma-like areas show variation in adipocytes size, scattered hyperchromatic moderately pleomorphic nucleoli and easily identified lipoblasts.  The sclerosing areas comprise hypocellular fibrous bands containing atypical hyperchromatic stromal cells.  Skeletal muscle forms the deep margin of the specimen and sclerosing liposarcoma abuts but does not penetrate the muscle. Focally (A1) there is mild increase in cellularity of atypical stromal cell, across 8mm. This focus, which reaches the superior margin at the junction with the deep margin, is interpreted as mildly cellular sclerosing liposarcoma, however, a low grade dedifferentiated component cannot entirely be excluded.  Focally (A9) there is a 4mm focus of circumscribed mineralised lamellar bone surrounded by sclerosing and lipoma-like osteosarcoma. The interconnected bony trabeculae show foci of rimming by moderately pleomorphic hyperchromatic spindle cells and scattered atypical stromal cells are also present within the intertrabecular spaces.  The osteocytes within the trabeculae do not appear overtly atypical.  No parallel seams of woven bone or filigree osteoid are seen.  No high grade dedifferentiated tumour is seen.
There is widespread involvement of all surgical margins, apart from the deep margin, across a broad front.  Although a thin fibrous pseudocapsule covers most of the tumour (superficially, laterally and medially), the capsule contains atypical stromal cells consistent with sclerosingliposarcoma. There is intervening skeletal muscle between tumour and the deep margin with a minimal clearance of 0.5mm (A1), ,however, all the adjacent margins (superior, inferior, medial and lateral) are also involved close to the deepmargin. The focus of ossification (A9) is 5.6mm clear of the superficial margin and greater than 10mm from the other margins.
COMMENT:
There is a 4mm focus of ossification within the well differentiated liposarcoma.  This focus is favoured to represent heterotopic ossification, however, as it merges with sclerosing liposarcoma and there are atypical intertrabecular stromal cells and atypical spindle cells abutting the bone (? osteoblasts), I cannot exclude a microscopic focus of low grade osteosarcomatous dediffentiation.  No definite high grade dedifferentiation is seen.  In contrast the foci of ossification in the previous resction specimen (61K04161- 15,47), were grossly visible and showed either marked stromal atypia  in association with atypical mitoses or seams of osteoid in continuity with malignant osteoblasts, as opposed to lamellar bone seen currently.
B.  Sections show fibroadipose tissue and skeletal muscle.  Focally there are fibrous bands with mild increase in stromal cellularity and possible mild nuclear atypia.  Although focal infiltration by sclerosing liposarcoma cannot be excluded these foci also show diathermy artefact which may account for the appearance.  The adjacent adipose tissue appears mature without significant variation in adipocyte sizeor nuclear atypia.  No lipoblasts are seen.  No dedifferentiated liposarcoma is seen.  
C.  Sections show mature adipose tissue.  No capsule is identified. There are no atypical features. In the appropriate clinical context the appearance are consistent with a lipoma. 
D.  Sections show mature adipose tissue.  No capsule or peripheral skeletal muscle is identified. . In the appropriate clinical context the appearance are consistent with a lipoma. 

Selected slides shown to Dr R Remondini.

DIAGNOSIS
A. Pelvic side wall: 
-  Well differentiated liposarcoma with focus of ossification (see comment).
-  Foci of low grade dedifferentiation cannot be excluded, including at the superior margin.
-  Extends to margins over a broad front (see text).
-  No convincing high grade dedifferentiation.
B. Lateral right pelvis side wall:
-  Focal stromal cell atypia, well differentiated liposarcomacannot be excluded (see above).
C. Subcutaneous lesion right back:  Consistent with lipoma
D. Intramuscular lesion right back:  Consistent with lipoma.

