
Episode No:  16Y644653J
1696446.NJJ

KRAVITZ, ERNEST 
Lab No:  16Y64465
Ridgeview
BATHURST  Western Australia  4370
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  9/10/2003
Sex:  F
Collected: 29/05/2013 at 16:13
Location:  MEDIC/SURGERYWARD-THE CANBERRA HOSPITAL
DR SID TYLER IBRAHAM
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (13/8/63):


CLINICAL:
Total thyroidectomy for atypical cells of uncertain significance, bilateral nodules.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right thyroid" consists of a right hemithyroid weighing 9.8g and measuring 45 x 20 x 20mm.  The external surface is dusky and rough.  The specimen is inked black (tracheal margin) rest of the specimen is inked blue. 
The specimen is serially sectioned from superior to inferior, the cut surface is smooth and homogeneous in the lower pole there is a glistening nodule 7 x 7mm.  The specimen is AE (superior to inferior) in 8 blocks.   
B.  Specimen labelled "Left thyroid" consists of a left hemithyroid weighing 12g and measuring 40 x 20 x 25mm.  The external surface is dusky and rough.  The specimen is inked black (tracheal margin) rest of the specimen is inked blue 
The specimen is serially sectioned from superior to inferior.  The specimen is serially sectioned into 8 slices from superior to inferior.  On sectioning in the upper pole there is a white solid ill defined nodule 10 x 11mm.  The specimen is AE (superior to inferior) in 8 blocks.  (TO: RM;JC/vo 2.7.63)
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr E Basch):
A.  The specimen has been entirely embedded and examined.  Sections show an 8mm hyperplastic benign follicular-patterned within the inferior third of the lobe.  The unencapsulated nodule has a macrofollicular architecture.  There is some patchy scalloping of colloid however no nuclear atypia is seen.  The background thyroid has an accentuated lobular architecture however no discrete nodules are seen.  No lymph nodes or parathyroid glands are identified.  There is no evidence of malignancy.  
B.  The left lobe of thyroid has been entirely embedded and examined.  Within the upper third ofthe lobe there is a dominant hyperplastic adenomatoid nodule, approximately 15mm in maximum dimension which contains cellular microfollicular and nested Hurthle cell areas as well as non-metaplastic mainly macrofollicular areas.  The nodule is partially invested by thin fibrous tissue but lacks a distinct thick walled capsule.  Focally the Hurthle cell component displays some atypical features with nuclear crowding, nuclear grooves and mild chromatin pallor. There is corresponding membranous HBME1 expression in this focus, albeit with some non-specific backround staining.  Overall the atypical features are regarded as insufficient for a diagnosis of papillary carcinoma.  No significant mitotic activity, nuclear convolutions or necrosis is seen.  The background thyroid shows several hyperplastic nodules and foci of palpation thyroiditis.  No lymph nodes or parathyroid glands are seen.  There is no evidence of malignancy.   
DIAGNOSIS:
A & B.  Right and left thyroid lobes:
-  Multinodular goitre with benign hyperplastic nodules including;
	-  Benign hyperplastic 8mm nodule in the right lobe.
		-  Hurthle cell nodule, 15mm, in the left lobe with focal atypia; favour benign	   hyperplastic adenomatoid nodule.  
A second opinion is being sought from A/Prof E Mariello at Douglas Hanly Moir Pathology THE MORNINGTON CENTRE and a
supplementary report will be issued.


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT (13/8/63):
Sections were sent to A/Prof E Yurkovich, ACUTECARE WARD, ROYAL HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN Hospital for opinion and his report of which is as follows.
"Thank you tor the opportunity to see the slides from the left lobe.
The 15mm nodule is quite distinct from the remainder of the thyroid.There is subtle but real nuclear atypia indicated by nuclear grooving, loss of polarity and nuclear irregularity and no doubt this nuclear atypia accounts for the findings in the fine needle aspirate.  Importantly this atypical nodule iscompletely encapsulated with no capsular or vascular invasion, confined to the thyroid and completely excised.  In reality this is probably a dysplastic nodule with the potential to progress if left in situ.  Because there is no conceptof dysplasia in the thyroid and because it will be reliably cured by complete excision (as has been performed) I would classify it as a benign follicular adenoma.
SUMMARY:
Left lobeof thyroid: Follicular adenoma 15mm."

