 5844638.JKG
STURRUP, YON
58K46383

Last edited : 29/10/2063		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
BRCA 1.  Previous Rt breast cancer with WLE + SLNBx.  Now completion subcutaneous mastectomy.  Right breast - short stitch superior, long lateral.  Also superior flap trimmings.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right breast tissue long lateral short superior", consists of a mastectomy specimen which measures 140 x 130 x 20mm.  There is a central ellipse of skin including nipple which measures 55 x 25mm.  The nipple areola complex measures 22 x 17mm.  On sectioning there is a fibrotic appearing area whichcorresponds to the 9 o'clock position which may represent a surgical scar, this area measures 50 x 15 x 15mm.  No other discreet lesions are identified.  Superficial margin inked blue, deep margin inked black.  
Blocks: 1 and 2 - representative upper outer quadrant; 3 to 5 - representative upper outer quadrant around ?scar; 6 to 9 - representative lower outer quadrant including ? scar block 6 to 8; 10 to 14- representative upper inner quadrant; 15 to 18 - representative lower inner quadrant; 19 - nipple.  
B.  Specimen labelled "Superior flap right breast", consists of multiple pieces of fatty tissue which measure 40 x 25 x 5mm in aggregate.  AE 2 blocks. 
(TO: ON;QI/vo 25.10.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by Dr O Mieloszyk):
A. Sections of the right breast show atrophy of acinar and ductular epithelium in a background of extensive stromal fibrosis and hyalinisation. There is collagenisation of intralobular stroma and thickening of periacinar and periductular basement membranes. In addition, the epithelial cells show patchy cytological atypia with some exhibiting nuclear enlargement and nucleoli prominence and others displaying nuclear hyperchromasia. However, no significant architectural changes diagnostic of ductal carcinoma in situis identified. Although atypical hyperplasia cannot be totally excluded, the appearance may represent persistent radiotherapy effect. The remainder of the breast show foci of columnar cell change and sclerosis adenosis. There is no evidence invasive malignancy.
B. Sections show fibrofatty in which there are scattered breast lobules and ductules. There is mild cytological atypia of the epithelial cells similar to those seen in Specimen A. There is no evidence of ductal carcinoma in situ or malignancy.
DIAGNOSIS:
A & B. Right breast and superior flap
- PATCHY EPITHELIAL CELL ATYPIA (SEE BODY OF TEXT)
- NO EVIDENCE OF DUCTAL CARCINOMA IN SITU OR MALIGNANCY

