
Episode No:  62J356347Z
6233563.LTZ

CLAUGHTON, DOUGLASS TIEN MINH 
Lab No:  62J35634
Dobrody Farm
MOONIE  Victoria  4113
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  8/9/2020
Sex:  F
Collected: 22/1/2062 at :
Location:  SEALS-CHILDERS MULTIPURPOSE HEALTH SERVICE
DR DELMER DERRICK TRYTHALL
Distribution:   FILE-COPY

CLINICAL:
Hx of BRCA 1+ve for risk reduction bilateral skin sparing mastectomies. 
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right breast", consists of a mastectomy with a suture attached to one end presumed axillary tail.  The mastectomy measures 210mm (medial to lateral) x 190mm (inferior to superior) x 95mm (superficial to deep) and weighing 1130g.There is a ellipse of skin measuring 70 x 50mm with an overlying nipple areolar complex 35 x 35mm which appears unremarkable. The superficial margin is inked blue and the deep margin is inked black  In the inner upper quadrant there were two tan ? intramammary lymph nodes 10 and 8mm which were 20mm from the deep margin.  The remainder of the cut surface reveals unremarkable fatty and lobular breast tissue. A separate ragged triangular piece of skin 50 x 30mm to a depth of 12mm is identified. The skin and the cut surface appears unremarkable.  
Block 1 - ? intramammary lymph node; 2 - tissue deep to intramammary lymph nodes; 3- representative inner upper quadrant; 4 & 5 - representative inner lower quadrant; 6 & 7 - representative outer lower quadrant; 8 & 9 - representative outer upper quadrant; 10 - nipple and tissue deep to nipple; 11 - representativeseparate fragment of skin. 
B.  Specimen labelled "Left breast", consists of a mastectomy with a suture attached to one side of the ellipse of skin presumed superior.  The mastectomy measures 215mm (medial to lateral) x 145mm (inferior to superior) x 90mm (superficial to deep) and weighing 1065g. there is a ellipse of skin 85 x 40mm attached with an overlying nipple areolar complex 35 x 35mm which appears unremarkable.  The superficial margin is inked blue and the deep margin is inked black. The cut surface reveals unremarkable fatty and lobular breast tissue. 
Blocks 1 & 2 - representative inner upper quadrant; 3 & 4- representative inner lower quadrant; 5 & 6 - representative outer lower quadrant; 7 & 8 - representative outer upper quadrant; 9 - nipple and tissue deep to nipple. (TO: LE;KD/ec 23.1.62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr N Laborn)
A.   Sections show a spectrum of proliferative changes including a complex sclerosing lesion, columnar cell hyperplasia, florid epithelial and myoepithelial hyperplasia, cystic papillary apocrine metaplasia and sclerosing adenosis.  In areas thereare foci in which columnar cell hyperplasia shows superimposed architectural atypia approaching atypical ductal hyperplasia. These foci are clear of the margin by greater than 10mm. There are several fibroadenomas including a mildly sclerosed fibroadenoma.  There is background fibrocystic change. No evidence of lobular neoplasia, in situ or invasive malignancy is seen.  The nipple isunremarkable. No intramammary lymph nodes are identified.
B.   Sections show a spectrum ofproliferative changes including several small radial scars which display adenosis, columnar cell hyperplasia, apocrine metaplasia and florid epithelial hyperplasia.  In one of the radial scars there is superimposed columnar cell change with architectural atypia which approaches but falls short of atypical ductal hyperplasia.  Elsewhere there is fibrocystic change, papillary cystic apocrine metaplasia, columnar cell change with and without hyperplasia and foci of pseudangiomatous stromal hyperplasia-like change. A fibroadenoma is also present. No evidence of lobular neoplasia, in situ or invasive malignancy is seen. The nipple is unremarkable.  No intramammary lymph nodes are identified.
DIAGNOSIS:  
A & B.  Right and left breasts:
-  Spectrum of benign proliferative changes 
-  Few foci approaching atypical ductal hyperplasia, well clear of margins.
-  Several fibroadenomas. 
-  No evidence of in situor invasive malignancy.   
 

