Episode No:  47S156484R
477156.LWK

SOFFA, EDA 
Lab No:  47S15648
Bisshop
TANUNDA  Victoria  7025
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  9/11/1992
Sex:  F
Collected: 17/10/2012 at 16:42
Location:  St Vincent's Pathology-PORT MACQUARIE BASE HOSPITAL
DR SHAYNE TOBY ORITZ
Distribution:   FILE-COPY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
CLINICAL:
Whipple's resection.  Long stitch at bile duct, long blue stitch at portal vein. 
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Whipple", consists of distal stomach and proximal duodenum 135mm in length and up to 45mm in diameter attached to head of pancreas, 80 x 54 x 25mm and gallbladder 130mm in length and up to 34mm in diameter.  A small amount of lesser omentum and peripancreatic fat and lymph nodes are also attached.  Three separate pieces of greater omental fat are present, measuring 65 x 30 x 25mm, 170 x 90 x 15mm and 205 x 130 x 7mm.  The sutures designated long for bile duct and blue for portal vein are identified. 
On opening, the pancreatic and common bile ducts appear patent. The duodenal and gastric mucosae are unremarkable.  Anterior inked green, portal vein bed red and posterior black.  
On sectioning, an ill defined firm pale tan tumour is present within superior head ofpancreas and appears to encircle common bile duct.  Both the hepatic and cystic ducts appear dilated and the hepatic duct is thick-walled. The tumour measures approximately 30 x 29 x 20mm and abuts the anterior, posterior, portal vein and superior margins.  The tumour is well clear of the inferior margin.  
The gallbladder mucosa is unremarkable and the lumen contains bile. The remaining cut surfaces of the pancreas appear unremarkable. 
Block 1 - shave pancreatic neck resection margin; 2 - pyloric resection margin; 3 - duodenal resection margin; 4-6 - posteromedial peripancreatic lymph nodes (4 - one lymph node bisected; 5 - one lymph node bisected; 6 - one lymph node bisected); 7 & 8 - superior peripancreatic lymph nodes (7 - one lymph node bisected; 8 - lymph nodes); 9-11 - anterolateral peripancreatic lymph nodes; 12 - posterior peripancreatic lymphnodes; 13 - shave margin hepatic duct; 14 & 15  - superior margin further LS; 16 - tumour around bile duct including duodenal wall and surrounding lymph nodes; 17 - further representative tumour including common bile duct and duodenal wall (one slice inferior to block 16); 18-21 - full face tumour superior head of pancreas including duodenum and common bile duct (one slice inferior to block 17); 22 - representative uninvolved pancreas; 23- uninvolved cystic and hepatic ducts; 24 - cystic duct (one slice proximal to 23); 25 - representative pyloric mucosa; 26 - representative duodenal mucosa; 27 - representative gallbladder body; 28 - representative gallbladder fundus; 29 - lymph nodes lesser omentum; 30-  representative separate pieces of omentum.  
(TO: XL;XW/ec 17.12.62) 
 




MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr L Pedelty)  
Sections show a moderately differentiated ductal adenocarcinoma of pancreas. This is in the superior part of the head and encircles the common bile duct.  The tumour consists mainly of irregular glands lined by epithelial cells with large, irregular vesicular nuclei and eosinophilic or pale cytoplasm.  Some nuclei have a single prominent nucleolus.  The tumour is infiltrative at its periphery and there is some direct invasion into peripancreatic fat.  There is no tumour invasion of the duodenalwall.  There is multifocal perineural invasion within and at the advancing edge of the tumour, but not outside the main tumour.  There is also multifocal lymphovascular invasion within and at the advancing edgeof the tumour.  No large vessel invasion is seen.  Main pancreatic ducts within the tumour show features of PAN-IN 3.  Pancreatic tissue adjacent to the tumour is atrophic.
Tumour is very close to (0.2mm from) the portal vein groove margin(block 16, 17).  Other excision margins appear free of tumour.  Tumour is 3mm from the anterior soft tissue margin, 4mm from the nearest posterior soft tissue margin and 7mm from the nearest superior soft tissue margin.  The pancreatic neck margin is free of tumour.  At the pancreatic neck margin the pancreas is atrophic and the pancreatic ducts show features of PAN-IN 2.  The common hepatic duct margin is free of tumour.  Sections from the proximal gastric margin show normal gastric body type mucosa and underlying wall.  Sections of the duodenum and distal duodenal marginare unremarkable.  Sections of the gallbladder are unremarkable.  
A total of twelve lymph nodes were identified posterior to the superiorpancreatic head and there is metastatic tumour in three of these nodes.  A total of two lymph nodes were identified around the upper common bile duct and there is metastatic tumour in one of these nodes.  A total of seven lymph nodes were identified around the anterior head of pancreas and these are all free of tumour.  A total of three lymph nodes were identified posterior to the inferiorhead of pancreas and these are all free of tumour.  One lymph node was identified in lesser omental fat and this is free of tumour.     
DIAGNOSIS:  
Whipple's resection:  Moderately differentiated ductal adenocarcinoma of head of pancreas with lymph node metastases (4 /25).  pT3 N1. 
  
 

