
 8903582.ZCO
WALETZKO, ALLENA
89B35829

Last edited : 4/9/2063		Page: 2
CLINICAL:
Phyllodes tumour right breast 3 o'clock.  Long stitch lateral, short superficial, mediummedial, double stitch superficial.  
Note: Confirmed with Dr Birkhead, that the specimen is from the left breast.
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Left breast mass, stitch at short; superior, long; lateral, med; medial and double superficial" consists of orientated wide local excision measuring 70mm (medial to lateral) 25mm (superior to inferior) and 60mm (superficial to deep).  
Superficial surface is inked blue; superior is inked green and inferior is inked black.  The breast tissue is serially sectioned in the parasagittal plane into 12 sections.  The cut surface reveals a well circumscribed pink fleshy tumour measuring 20 x 20 x 15mm.  The tumour is situated 3mm from the inferior margin, 10mm from the superficial margin, 3mm from the superior margin and 25mm from the deep margin.  Tumour is well clear of the medial and lateral margins.  
Blocks:  1- shave of the lateral margin; 2- representative slice, slice 3; representative slice, slice 6 with tumour; 4 & 5 - slice 7 all embedded; 6 & 7 - slice 8 all embedded; 8 & 9 - representative sections of slice 9 with tumour; 10 -representative section slice 10 medial to tumour; 11 - slice of medial margin.  (AS/mm 4.3.63) 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr W Hejl & Dr W Liwanag):
Sections show a wellcircumscribed lesion composed of epithelial and stromal elements.  The epithelial component is in the form of dilated, elongated and branching ducts.  The intervening stroma is moderately cellular with mild cellular atypia.  Stromal overgrowth, defined by cellular stroma with no intervening ducts in a lower power field, is present.  The stromal mitotic figures are estimated to be 1-2 mitosis per 10hpf.  The features are consistent with a borderline phyllodes tumour.  Thetumour is 6mm from superior, 3mm from inferior, 8mm from superficial, 25mm from deep margin and well clear of lateral and medial margins.  Away from the tumour there is a single focus of ductal hyperplasia of usual type.  There is no evidence of in situ or invasive carcinoma.
DIAGNOSIS:
Left breast 3 o'clock:  Borderline phyllodes tumour, margins clear.

