
Episode No:  52P4114755
5264114.SNO

OATLEY, OTIS 
Lab No:  52P41147
Deville Estates
SEA LAKE  Queensland  1235
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  18/10/2001
Sex:  M
Collected: Unknown at :
Location:  2.PARKES 8-LAKE CARGELLIGO MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE
DR CESAR LYNWOOD BUCCO
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Right hemicolectomy including separate specimens for wedge resection of the duodenum and retroperitoneal tissue.  Please seen attached operation report.  
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Right hemicolectomy" consists of a segment of caecum and terminal ileum measuring 160mm in length.  The segment of ileum appears dilated and measures 80mm in length and up to 40mm in maximum diameter.  The segment of caecum measures 90mm in length and up to 40mm in maximum diameter.  In the middle of the caecum, 50mm from the distal margin is an area of perforation and serosal puckering.   A segment of greater omentum is attached to the area of serosal puckering.  The mucosal surface of the duodenum is unremarkable.  At the level of the ileocaecal valve and proximal caecum there is a circumferential ulcerated and stenosing tumour which measures 20mm from proximal to distaland is located 90mm from the proximal margin and 60mm from the distal margin.  No other lesions are identified.  The specimen is serially sectioned from proximal to distal.  On section, there is invasive tumour that measures up to 70mm from proximal to distal.  It appears to infiltrate through the wall into the pericolic fat.  Two abscesses are identified measuring 15 and 16mm in maximum diameter.  The appendix is not identified.  
Blocks: 1 - one LS proximal margin; 2 - one LS distal margin; 3 to 5 - three TS tumour; 6 & 7 - composite of tumour with area of perforation ?abscess; 8 - tubular structure ?appendix; 9 - two ?lymph nodes; 10 - two ?lymph nodes; 11 - two ?lymph nodes.   
B.  Specimen labelled "Duodenum" consists of a piece of duodenal wall measuring 50 x 30 x 10mm.  The serosal surface showsmultiple fibrous adhesions.  The mucosal surface is unremarkable.  Representative sections in 2 blocks.
3 to 10 - remaining tissue all embedded.  (NZ/mm 19.6.62) 
C.  Specimen labelled "Retro peritoneal lesion" consists of a piece of fat covered by fibrinous exudate measuring 50 x 40 x 10mm.  Representative sections in 3 blocks.   (JC/ta  18/6/62) 
 
MICROSCOPIC (reported by Dr I Kanniard):
Macroscopic Description

Site of tumour: Caecum	
Maximum tumour diameter:     70mm
Distance of tumour to nearer cut end:    60mm
Tumour perforation:     Yes (pT4) 
Microscopic Description

Type
Adenocarcinoma NOS
Differentiation by predominant area
Moderate
Local invasion
pT4b	Tumour directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures
Tumour involvement of margins
Cut ends: Not involved
Non-peritonealised circumferential margin:  extensive tumour is found in specimen C - retroperitoneal lesion and specimen B (duodenum).
Histological measurement from tumour to non-peritonealised margin:  not applicable
Lymph nodes
Number of lymph nodes present: 6	
Number of lymph nodes involved: 0	
pN0	No regional LN metastasis
Lymphovascular invasion
Present in medium sized and large vessels in retroperitoneum (specimen C).
Perineural invasion
Present (blocks C2, C3)
Histologically confirmed distant metastases
pMx	Cannot be assessed histologically
cM1                 Clinical information was provided that a liver metastasis is present.
Background abnormalities/other comments
Adenomas: Absent.
Ulcerative colitis: Absent.
Crohn's disease: Absent.
Other: The appendix is not found. 
There isperforation with abscess formation, organizing haemorrhage and fibrinous exudate and florid serositis.  Marked inflammation extends to involve the whole thickness of the duodenum (specimen 2), with adenocarcinoma in tissues adherent to the duodenum (block B3) although not involving the duodenal mucosa, submucosa or muscularis propria.
Residual tumour status
R2	Macroscopic margin involvement
Clinical information (operation report) accompanying the pathology request states that a liver metastasis is present which was not resected.
Response to neoadjuvent therapy - not applicable
Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MMRD) Status	
MLH1		Preserved nuclear staining
PMS2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH2		Preserved nuclear staining
MSH6		Preserved nuclear staining
Comment:
Preserved nuclear staining of a carcinoma for MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
Summary - TNM 7th Edition
pT4b pN0 pMx cM1 R2 

CONCLUSION
A. Right hemicolectomy:  Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with perforation. 
B. Duodenum: Marked acute inflammation, adenocarcinoma in tissue adjacent to duodenum.
C. Retroperitoneal tissue: Widespread adenocarcinoma.
SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
K-RAS Gene Mutation Analysis
ADDITIONAL REPORT:  (30.8.62)
K-Ras Gene Mutation Analysis Performed At Envoi pathology Pathology.
"TheK-Ras oncogene has been screened for mutations in exon 2, codons 12 and 13.  K-Ras mutations have been associated with resistance to Erbitux.  The purpose of this screening is to determine the K-Ras mutation status in the tumour of an individual affected by colorectal cancer.  This status will be used to predict the patient's response to Erbitux. 
RESULT:	Negative - Mutation NOT identified. 
Methods Employed:
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and pyrosequencing.
COMMENT:
This result indicates that the patient may benefit from treatment with Erbitux.However, a negative result does not rule out the possibility of a mutation being present in another exon or in codons 12 and 13 in exon 2 at levels below the threshold of detection (5%).  [36C69212.A5]". 
 

