
Episode No:  76C432186Z
760432.EXP

COTRONE, SHIRLEY 
Lab No:76C43218
Memel
COONAMBLE  TAS  7054
Specimen: Tissue
D.O.B:  5/3/2002
Sex:  M
Collected: 25/10/2013 at 13:20
Location:  PRINCE OF WALESPRIVATE-TOCUMWAL HOSPITAL
DR EVERETT ROBIN EDGCOMB
Distribution:   FILE-COPY
CLINICAL:
Right hemi-hepatectomy.  Segments 5, 8 lateral segment 6, 7 (with tumour) medial segment 6, 7 (resected due to ischemia).  HCV.   
MACROSCOPIC:
Specimen labelled "Liver resections" consists of a partialliver resection measuring 150 x 125 x 65mm.  The liver specimen is comprised of two segments approximated with sutures.  The lateral piece measures 95 x 70 x 65mm and the medial piece measures 110 x 60 x 40mm.  The exposed resection margins of both pieces are inked blue.  Within the lateral piece there is an indurated tumour 25 x 22 x 20mm.  The tumour has a brown nodular cut surface.  The tumour is 8mm from the lateral hepatic resection margin and abuts the inferior margin adjacent to the portal vein.  The remainder of the liver parenchyma has a gritty nodular cut surface.   The tumour is 30mm from the capsular surface.  The medial piece has a nodular gritty cut surface.  No distinct lesions are identified within this piece.  
Blocks: 1 - section of tumour including lateral and inferior margins (the nick marks the lateral margin); 2 & 3 - (paired blocks) tumour and inferior margin including the portal vein; 4 - section of tumour (reserve block); 5 - section of liver from the lateral piece away from the tumour (special stains requested); 6 & 7 - representative from the medial piece.   (JU/ta 30/12/63) Specimen has been photographed.
MICROSCOPIC (Reported by A/Prof T Caplin): 
The sections of liver show a well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma arising in a background of cirrhosis.
The hepatocellular carcinoma is composed of cords of mild to moderately atypical hepatocytes. The hepatic cords show variable thickness and are lined by CD34 positive cells. CD34 staining within the adjacent cirrhotic liver shows a normal pattern in contrast. There is a heavy neutrophilic and focally lymphoplasmacytic inflammatory cell infiltrate within the lesion. Mitoses areinfrequent and no necrosis is seen.
Focal pseudoglandular formation is present. Abundant bile pigment is seen. 
The edge of the hepatocellular carcinoma is difficult to discern microscopically and in some areas merges with adjacent cirrhotic parenchyma. HepPar1 staining is strong and diffuse within the cirrhotic parenchyma, whereas the tumour shows variable staining, including areas of absent staining. Beta-catenin shows increased expression within the carcinoma compared to adjacent parenchyma.
No definite vascular invasion is identified.
The inked lines of excision appear clear of the lesion. The inferior margin appears clear by 5 - 7mm and the lateral margin is clear by approximately 10mm.
The adjacent cirrhotic liver shows nodular fibrosis, expansion of portal tracts by chronic inflammation and mild to moderate steatosis. These changes could be consistent with the clinical history of hepatitis C virus infection.
There is a mild increase in iron, but no increase in stainable copper.
No PAS positive, diastase resistant globules are seen.
 
Dr T Kranawetter has also seen representative sections.
DIAGNOSIS:
LIVER: HEPATOCELLULAR CARCINOMA ARISINGIN A BACKGROUND OF CIRHHOSIS.

