
Episode No:  04K999309D
044999.IBZ

FINSTAD, RUBI 
Lab No:  04K99930,04K99930
San Jaun Canyon
SEA LAKE  QLD  4695
Specimen: Fluid,Tissue
D.O.B:  1/12/1997
Sex:  F
Collected: 22/6/2062 at :
Location:SWAPS-STRATHALBYN AND DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICES
DR JURNEE ANALISA BURZYNSKI
Distribution:   FILE-COPY, DR Dautrich, DR Groton, DR Peche,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY,   NSW-CANCER-REGISTRY
***ADDITIONAL REPORT:  EXTERNAL PATHOLOGY REVIEW (12.7.62)

CLINICAL:
Grade 3 endometrioid cancer on curettings.  Recent CABGs.  Lesion seen external stomach wall.
MACROSCOPIC:
A.  Specimen labelled "Uterus + ovaries + tubes" consists of a uterus with attached cervix weighing 69g in total.  The uterus measures 65 x 50 x 28mm and has a smooth shiny serosal surface.  The ectocervix measures 60 x 25mm and has an unremarkable appearance.  On sectioning the endometrial cavity there is an exophytic tumour which is present in the fundus and extends  anteriorly  and posteriorly.  It measures 22 x 15 x 5mm (anterior face) and 20 x 20 x 5mm (posterior endometrium).  On sectioning, the tumour has a maximum thickness of 15mm.  The total thickness of the endo/myometrium is 20mm.  Tumour is located 5mm from the serosal surface.  The right fallopian tube measures 45mm in length and up to 5mm in maximum diameter.  The right ovary measures 25 x 10 x 7mm.  The left fallopian tube measures 45mm in length and up to 5mm in maximum diameter.  The left ovary measures 25 x 10 x 5mm.  On sectioning, the ovaries are unremarkable.   
Blocks: 1 to 3 - one longitudinal section of anterior face of the uterus ; 4 & 5 - two further representative sections of tumour with anterior endo/myometrium; 6 to 8 - one longitudinal section of posterior face of uterus 9 & 10 - two further representative sections of tumour from posterior face; 11 - right cornu; 12 - left cornu; 13 - right parametrial tissue; 14 - left parametrial tissue; 15 - right fimbria; 16 - right ovary and one transverse section of right fallopian tube; 17 - left fimbria; 18 - left ovary and one transverse section of left fallopian tube.
B.  Specimen labelled "Gastric wall biopsy" consists of an irregular piece of tissue with a stapled suture which measures 20 x 10 x 5mm.  A small tan nodule measuring 5x 5mm is identified.  The specimen is sectioned in five slices and AE one block. 
C.  Specimen labelled "Left pelvic lymph node" consists of a fragment of fatty tissue measuring 30 x 25 x 25mm.  Onelymph node is identified measuring 15 x 5 x 5mm.  The lymph node is BAE one block. 
D.  Specimen labelled "Right pelvic lymph node" consists of three pieces of fatty tissue measuring in aggregate 50 x 40 x 10mm.  Three lymph nodes are identified measuring from 15 to 25mm.  
Blocks:  1 to 3 - one bisected lymph node each.
E.  Specimen labelled "Right common iliac" consists of a piece of fatty tissue measuring 20 x 15 x 10mm.  A small lymph node is identified measuring 10 x 2 x 2mm.  AE one block. 
F.  Specimen labelled "Omental fat biopsy" consists of a piece of omentum measuring 80 x 50 x 10mm.  No lesions are identified.  Two representative sections in two blocks.   (GV/cc 25/6/62)
 
MICROSCOPIC: (Reported by Dr A Gilruth - 28/6/2062)
A.  Sections of uterus show an endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinoma. The adenocarcinoma consists predominantly of infiltrative glands, many with a complex/cribriform architecture, lined by moderately pleomorphic carcinoma cells. Focally, small areas with a non-squamous, non-morular solid growth pattern are present. The adenocarcinoma infiltrates to a maximum depth of 5.5mm, thorugh a uterine wall 11mm thick. No convincing lymphovascular space invasion or serosal involvement is seen. The cervix, fallopian tubes and ovaries show no significant histologic abnormality. 
COMMENT:
The uterine tumour is an endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinoma. Although the initial endometrial curettings (04K99930) showed a predominant solid pattern of growth (FIGO Grade 3), examination ofthe entire endometrium shows the tumour is composed predominantly of complex infiltrative cribriform glands. Overall, these findings are most consistent with a FIGO Grade 2 endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinoma (Architecture: grade 2 (5 - 50% solid growth); Cytology: grade 2).
B.  Sections show fragments of thickened, distorted muscularis propria. No overlying submucosa or mucosa is present for assessment. There is a proliferation of spindled to epithelioid cells that are associated with very occasional ganglion cells. The spindled to epithelioid cells are plump with rounded to wavy nuclear contours, occasional intra-nuclear pseudo-inclusions and indistinct eosinophilic cytoplasm. The cells infiltrate, assmall isolated fascicles, within the muscularis propria, and form an exophytic, focally hyalinised nodule on the surface of the muscularis. In one of the sections, the nodule showsextensive dystrophic calcification. There is no significant cytologic atypia. Mitoses are inconspicuous and no necrosis is identified. 
IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY:
Immunohistochemical stains were performed and the results are as follows:
Spindle cells positive for: CD34 (strong diffuse positivity), desmin (focal mild positivity), CD117 (weak cytoplasmic staining ?significant), synaptophysin (patchy focal).
Spindle cells negative for: Pan-cytokeratin (MNF-116), CAM5.2, EMA, CD56, S100, Neurofilament, NSE (non-specific trace), Chromogranin, SMA, HMB45 (non-specific), CD68, CD10.
LCA highlights scattered admixed inflammatory cells. 
A ki-67 immunoproliferative index highlights less than 1% of the lesional cells.
COMMENT:
The gastric nodule is a low grade spindled/epithelioid lesion. The morphological appearance in association with CD34/desmin positivity is suggestive of a gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST), however the characteristic CD117 (c-kit) immunohistochemical stain is negative. Although CD117 negative GISTS are well described, the possibility that the changes represent an alternative diagnosis, such a reactive ?scar-like process, cannot be entirely excluded. The slides will be sent to Professor MONROE PINCKLEY (DUNEDOO MULTI PURPOSE SERVICE Hospital) for his opinion and a supplementary report willbe issued.
C.  Sections of the left pelvic lymph node show no evidence of malignancy (0/1).
D.  Sections of the three right pelvic lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/3).
E.  Sections of the two right common iliac lymph nodes show no evidence of malignancy (0/2). 
F.  Sectionsshow fragments of mature adipose tissue consistent with omentum. There is no evidence of malignancy. 


DIAGNOSIS:
A.  Uterus: 
Endometrial endometrioid adenocarcinoma, FIGO Grade 2 (see body of report). 
Adenocarcinoma infiltrates 5.5mminto a uterine wall 11mm thick.
No convincing lymphovascular space or serosal invo
The cervix, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes show no significant histologic abnormality. 

B.  Gastric wall biopsy: Low grade spindled/epithelioid cell lesion (see body of report). 

C.  Left pelvic lymph node: No evidence of malignancy (0/1). 

D.  Right pelvic lymph node: No evidence of malignancy (0/3). 

E.  Right common iliac lymph node: No evidence of malignancy (0/2). 

F.  Omental fat biopsy: No evidence of malignancy. 

Representative slides have been seen with Associate Professor A Mutch.

