SPR no: 82R200968J
MRN no: 82620096
Site_name: PANCH HEALTH SERVICE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology ReportSUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ATTACHED

82R20096 (82R200968J) MUCKERMAN, COY WARRIYANGGA

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Rectosigmoid cancer + liver mets.
Rectosigmoid, Rt lobe liver, segment 4, segment 3, gallbladder, peritoneal nodule.

MACROSCOPIC:
A. &amp;quot;RECTOSIGMOID COLON AND ANTERIOR RESECTION&amp;quot;. Specimen of a total length of 170mm and is up to 55mm in circumference with mesocolon up to 70mm. The entire specimen is above the anterior peritoneal reflection. There is a tumour in the rectosigmoid junction area, measuring 25x15mm. It is polypoid and exophytic invading the underlying fat through a diverticulum and reaching the serosal surface which is macroscopically involved. This tumour is located 110mm of proximal, 45mm of distal and within 5mm of the radial margin (inked black). There is extensive extramuscular tumour spread into the fat up to 30mm. The remainder mucosa is unremarkable.

(1 proximal margin; 2 distal margin; 3&amp;amp;4 tumour involving the serosa adjacent to the radial resection margin; 5&amp;amp;6 continuous slices tumour invading the underlying fat through a possible diverticulum; 7 apical lymph node; 8 four lymph nodes; 9 four lymph nodes; 10 one lymph node bisected; 11 four lymph nodes; 12-----; 13 one lymph node, trisected). RS (M-13)

B. &amp;quot;LIVER RIGHT LOBE&amp;quot;. A lobectomy liver specimen of a total weight of 853g, measuring 160x130x75mm. The margins are inked green. There is a tumour at the edge of the liver which is subcapsular involving the overlying capsule macroscopically, measuring 30x30x25mm, located 70mm of the nearest resection margin and it is of yellow and firm, tan cut surface. Serial slicing reveals a smaller tumour nodule, measuring 15x10x10mm, located 40mm of the resection margin and 22mm of the nearest capsule. A tumour nodule at the surgical resection margin, measuring 50x30x30mm, located 30mm of the nearest capsule and involving the resection margin over 35mm. Two further tumour nodules are identified at the surgical resection margin, measuring 35x25x15mm, and 10x8x8mm. Two further subcapsular tumour nodules, measuring 50x40x40mm, and 15x10x10mm. Both located more than 50mm of the surgical resection margin.

(1 normal liver; 2 central new tumour nodule (?RESERVE BLOCK); 3 nodule at resection margin; 4&amp;amp;5 subcapsular nodule, continuous slice; 6&amp;amp;7 further representative tumour at resection margin; 8&amp;amp;9 subcapsular nodules). RS (M-9)

C. &amp;quot;GALLBLADDER&amp;quot;. A gallbladder, measuring 100x35mm. The outer surface is smooth and glistening. A collection of fatty tissue is identified at the neck ?lipoma, measuring 30x25x20mm. The wall is up to 4mm thick. The mucosal surface is green and granular. One yellow calculus is identified, measuring 25x20x10mm. Cystic areas are identified at the wall of the fundus. The cut surface of the fatty tissue is yellow and homogenous.

(1 cystic duct, TS body and LS fundus; 2 TS neck with adjacent fatty tissue). RS (M-2)

D. &amp;quot;SEGMENT 4 LIVER&amp;quot;. A segment of liver resection of a total weight of 10g, containing a capsule, 30x20mm, with underlying tissue up to 35mm. The margin is inked blue. Serial slicing reveals an ill-defined firm white area, measuring 12x8x6mm, and abutting the surgical resection margin macroscopically, located 15mm of the nearest capsule.

(1&amp;amp;2 TSs ill-defined area; 3 normal liver with capsule). RS (M-3)

E. &amp;quot;SEGMENT 3 LIVER&amp;quot;. Unorientated wedge resection of liver of a total weight of 60g, measuring 35x25mm, with underlying tissue to a depth of 16mm. The margins are inked blue. A bulge through the capsule is identified. The cut surface reveals a well-demarcated nodular tumour deposit, measuring 30x25x20mm, macroscopically abutting the deep resection margin.

(1 LS of each peripheral resection margin; 2 TS mid). RS (3-2)

F. &amp;quot;PERITONEAL NODULE&amp;quot;. Unorientated nodular yellow piece of tissue, measuring 6x6x6mm, with a gritty yellow cut surface, bisected. AE (2-1/ ZH/cy)
MACROSCOPIC FINDINGS SUMMARY

&amp;quot;Rectosigmoid&amp;quot;
Operation type:  Anterior resection
Specimen length:  170x55mm (mesocolon: 70mm)
Tumour site:  Rectosigmoid junction
Tumour size:  25x15mm
Distance from margins:
Proximal:  110mm
Distal:  45mm
Radial:  Within 5mm
Perforation:  Absent
Peritoneal reflection:  Tumour entirely above
Mesorectal integrity:  Complete
Extramuscular spread:  Present (up to 30mm)
Tumour description:  Polypoid and exophytic invading the underlying fat to reach the serosa
Overlying serosa: Involved macroscopically
Lymph nodes: As per block legend
Metastases: Liver (Specimen B,D, E)

Comments on macro:
- The radial margin is inked black.
- The tumour invades into the deep adipose tissue (Blocks 5&amp;amp;6)

MICROSCOPIC   (Dr. V Schraeder)
A.  Sections of the rectosigmoid colon show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma which invades through the full thickness of the muscularis propria and deeply into pericolorectal tissue.  Tumour invades to within 0.5mm of the black inked radial excision margin (block A4).  Although the tumour was thought to involve the serosal surface macroscopically, on microscopic examination it extends to within 1mm of the serosal surface but no definite involvement of the serosal surface could be seen microscopically.  Two of fourteen lymph nodes are involved by metastatic adenocarcinoma.  In addition, there is extensive perineural involvement within the pericolic tissue.

Tumour type:  Adenocarcinoma

Histologic grade:  Low grade (moderately differentiated)

Depth of invasion:  T3:  Tumour invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues, but could not be definitely identified on the surface of the visceral peritoneum microscopically.

Peritoneal surface involvement: Negative ( Thought to be present macroscopically, but this could not be confirmed microscopically).

Tumour infiltrating lymphocytes: Low denisity (less than 5 per high power field)

Excision Margins:
Proximal:  Clear (110mm macroscopic measurement)
Distal:  Clear (45mm macroscopic measurement)
Radial:  Tumour is located 0.5mm from the black inked radial excision margin (block A4) and is thus regarded as involved.

Lymph nodes:
Number positive:  2
Total number:  14
Apical node:  Negative

Intramural vein invasion:  Not identified

Extramural vein invasion:  Focally suspicious

Small vessel (lymphatic) invasion:  Focally suspicious

Perineural invasion:  Present and extensive

Distant metastases: Present ( See specimens B (right lobe liver, D and E)

Other findings:
Polyps: no
Polyp adjacent to carcinoma: no

Mismatch repair enzymes, Immunostains:  to follow

Microsatellite instability (MSI):  not tested

Synthesis/stage (AJCC/UICC TNM 7):

TNM stage:  pT3, pN1b, M1a

Stage grouping:  IVA


B.  Sections of liver confirm involvement by multiple nodules of metastatic adenocarcinoma with extensive necrosis, and a similar appearance to that in specimen A.  Metastatic adenocarcinoma involves the inked excision margin in at least two places over fronts of 4mm, 6mm and 5mm respectively.  Subcapsular nodules of metastatic adenocarcinoma are also noted, but no breach of the capsule is identified microscopically.  A section of the non-involved liver appears unremarkable.

C.  Sections of the gallbladder show features of chronic cholecystitis, with prominent Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses.  There is no evidence of malignancy  in the tissue examined.
D.  Sections of liver confirm a nodule of metastatic adenocarcinoma with a similar appearance to that in specimen B, which involves the inked excision margin over a front of approximately 5mm (distance of involvement is difficult to assess due to tumour fragmentation at this margin).  The non-involved liver parenchyma appears unremarkable.  Sections of the non-involved liver show moderate macrovesicular steatosis.
E.  Sections of liver show a subcapsular deposit of metastatic adenocarcinoma with a similar appearance to that in specimens B and D.  It focally involves the inked excision margin over a front of 1mm.
F.  Sections show a necrotic and partly calcified appendix epiploica.  No tumour is identified.
DIAGNOSIS
A.  RECTOSIGMOID COLON AND ANTERIOR RESECTION:
- MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA, pT3, pN1b, M1a INVOLVING 2 OF 14 LYMPH NODES, AND EXTREMELY CLOSE (0.5mm) TO THE RADIAL EXCISION MARGIN.  FOR DETAILS, PLEASE SEE TEXT.
B.  LIVER RIGHT LOBE:
-  METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA, INVOLVING THE INKED EXCISION MARGIN OF THE SPECIMEN.  FOR DETAILS, PLEASE SEE TEXT
C.  GALLBLADDER:  CHRONIC CHOLECYSTITIS
D.  SEGMENT 4 LIVER:
-   METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA, FOCALLY INVOLVING THE INKED EXCISION MARGIN
E.  SEGMENT 3 LIVER:
-   METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA, FOCALLY INVOLVING THE INKED EXCISION MARGIN
F.  PERITONEAL NODULE:  NECROTIC AND CALCIFIED APPENDIX EPIPLOICA
16/4/2067 nh
Supplementary report:
Immunostains for MSI proteins (Caremark Rx CPC Pathology; block: A5)
MLH1:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei
PMS2:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei
MSH2:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei
MSH6:  Positive (normal) staining of tumour nuclei
Comment:
Absence of staining for either MLH1, PMS2, MSH2 or MSH6 is associated with microsatellite instability phenotype (MSH-H), and may reflect the presence of a germline mutation or somatic inactivation of that mismatch repair enzyme.
Positive staining of a carcinoma for MLH1,  PMS2,  MSH2  and MSH6 indicates a low likelihood of microsatellite instability phenotype.
The antibodies used are not fully characterised for routine diagnostic use. Results may be affected by storage and fixation of specimens, and should be interpreted in conjunction with other investigation, including MSI testing where possible.
22/4/2067 nh
