SPR no: 92T961687E
MRN no: 9279616
Site_name: SHOALHAVEN DISTRICT MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report92T96168 (92T961687E) WACH, MALIK

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Mucinous appendix tumour. Whipple procedure.
Duodenum. Pancreatic head.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;HEAD OF PANCREAS, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY&amp;quot;.
Received two pieces of tissue in one jar.

A segment of large bowel, measuring 260x70mm with mesocolon attached along the specimen to a maximum width of 50mm. Multiple adhesions are identified on the serosal surface. A line of anastomosis is identified, 25mm of one resection margin. The mucosal surface appears unremarkable with no polyps or tumours identified. No definite serosal deposits are identified.

(1 resection margin away from anastomosis; 2 resection margin near anastomosis; 3 adhesions; 4 five lymph nodes).

Received a whipple procedure specimen including a length of small bowel, measuring 120mm and is up to 65mm in diameter. Attached with a pancreas head, measuring 95x75x60mm. The common bile duct is identified superior to the specimen and measures 13x9mm. The vascular groove resection margin is inked blue, the anterior surface is inked green and the posterior is inked black. The neck resection margin is located at the edge of blue and the green inking. The proximal resection margin of the bowel is inked black. The specimen is serially sliced perpendicular to the access of the small bowel. There is a mucinous lesion replacing the pancreatic parenchyma with cyst filled with mucin and a infiltrative, firm white border invading into the adjacent pancreas, duodenal wall, dudenal mucosa and possible the ampulla. This lesion measures 60x50x45mm. It appears to be located within 5mm of the proximal small bowel resection margin, 50mm of the distal small bowel resection margin, 13mm of the neck resection margin, 14mm of the uncinate resection margin, within 2mm of the vascular groove margin, 5mm of the anterior surface and 13mm of the posterior surface macroscopically. No macroscopic involvement of the main pancreatic duct or the common bile duct is identified. There is reveals a polyp at the ampulla, measuring 20x10x10mm that is closely associated to the mucinous lesion.

(5 common bile duct resection margin; 6 LS distal small bowel resection margin; 7 LS proximal resection margin; 8 shave of pancreatic neck resection margin ; 9 shave of the uncinate margin, bisected; 10 polyp at ampulla; 11 tumour in relation to common bile duct; 12&amp;amp;13 tumour in relation to vascular groove margin; 14 tumour with anterior surface; 15-18 continuous piece tumour in relation to small bowel mucosa and posterior surface; 19 three lymph nodes; 20 one lymph node, four TS; 21 one lymph node bisected; 22 tissue banking tumour block]). RS (M-22/ ZH/cy)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. Z. Vertz)
Sections through the segment of bowel shows small bowel anastomosed to colon with focal serosal fibrous adhesion and otherwise no significant abnormality.  Six local lymph nodes examined show reactive changes.  No tumour is seen.

Sections through the head of pancreas show a deposit of moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma including numerous extracellular mucin deposits.  The tumour is seen to involve the pancreas with focal extension into peripancreatic adipose tissue and into ampulla of Vater including involvement of the free mesothelial surface of duodenal wall adjacent to ampulla.  The rest of the pancreas shows atrophic changes.  No lymphovascular invasion is seen.  Eight peripancreatic lymph nodes examined show reactive changes. The pancreatic resection margin, peripancreatic soft tissue margins and small bowel resection margins are clear of tumour.  The common bile duct resection margin is also clear of tumour.

DIAGNOSIS:
RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY :
-NO TUMOUR SEEN.

HEAD OF PANCREAS :
-DEPOSIT OF MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA.

22/9/2066 ank
