SPR no: 21O487919J
MRN no: 21548791
Site_name: BILOELA HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report21O48791 (21O487919J) PYRON, RHETT

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Peritonectomy for appendiceal primary - omentectomy, cholecystectomy, bilateral diaphragm strip, splenectomy, R hemicolectomy, anterior resection and hysterectomy.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;GALLBLADDER, UTERUS, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, BILATERAL DIAPHRAGM STRIPPING, RIGHT COLON, SMALL BOWEL&amp;quot;. Consists of gallbladder, omentum, spleen, two segments of small bowel, a short segment of large bowel (right colon) attached touterus with attached cervix and posteriorly attached segment of large bowel and multiple pieces of fibrofatty tissues, some consistent with peritoneum.

Gallbladder.
It measures 75x30mm in maximum diameter. Serosal surface is smooth. It is received intact. Serosal surface is smooth. The wall is up to 3mm thick. Mucosa is granular green. No stones are found within the lumen.

(1 cystic duct and neck of gallbladder; 2 body and fundus).

Spleen.
It weighs 63g, and measures 90x65x20mm. The capsule shows focal mucinous deposits of tumour. On sectioning, the cut surface is red and spongy, no discreet lesions are identified.

(3&amp;amp;4 representative sections of spleen).

Omentum.
Consists of fatty tissue consistent with omentum and diffusely involved by a mucinous deposit of tumour. It measures 430x145x35mm.

(6-7 representative sections of omentum involved by tumour [7 tumour block]).

Small bowel.
First segment measures 300mm in length with a maximum diameter of 30mm. Attached mesentery is up to 30mm. The surface surface shows areas of roughening consistent with ?adhesion. On opening, the mucosa shows normal mucosal folds, no discreet lesion is identified.

The second segment of small bowel measures 135mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm. The mesentery is up to 40mm wide. The serosa shows areas of roughening consistent with ?areas of adhesion. There are also mucinous deposits noted on the mesentery. On opening, the mucosa is unremarkable. It shows normal mucosal folds and no discreet lesions are identified.

(8 first segment of small bowel; 9 second segment of small bowel; 10 second segment of small bowel including mucinous deposits of tumour on mesentery; 11 mucinous deposits of tumour on mesentery; 12 three possible nodes from mesentery).

First segment of large bowel.
It measures 30mm in length with a maximum diameter of 40mm. The serosa shows areas of roughening consistent with adhesion. There is also possible mucinous deposits of tumour focally. On opening the lumen, it shows normal mucosal folds. No discreet lesion is identified.

(13 sections through roughened serosa of large bowel; 14 one possible node, bisected, from large bowel mesocolic fat).

Uterus with cervix and attached segment of large bowel (consistent with right colon) with terminal ileum, resection received en mass surrounded by mucinous tumour.
Anterior aspect of the uterus is inked black, posterior is blue. It measures 80mm superior to inferior, 25mm anterior to posterior, ectocervix is 20x10mm, with a split-like os, 12mm. It is cream coloured and unremarkable. The serosa is mostly disrupted, especially over the fundus and within this area, can be seen mucinous deposits of tumour. There is a probable appendix visible which measures 15mm long and 10mm wide which extends in to the mucinous tumour deposits which surround the lateral and posterior uterus and adnexae obilterating the tubes and ovaries. On opening the specimen, the myometrium is extensively involved by a mucinous tumour. In areas it forms pockets bulging with mucoid material.

(15 anterior and posterior cervix; 16 anterior lower uterine segment; 17 anterior endomyometrium; 18&amp;amp;19 composite slices, posterior lower uterine segment; 20&amp;amp;21 composite slices posterior endomyometrium; 22 fundal aspect completely replaced and disrupted by tumour; 23 further section of ?posterior endomyometrium).

There are two segments of bowel adherent to the uterus. The shorter segment measures 80mm and less than a maximum diameter of 25mm. The serosa shows multiple mucinous tumour deposits on the serosa and in areas appear to infiltrate into the mucosa.

(24&amp;amp;25 shorter segment of large bowel).

The longer segment of large bowel (?rectum) measures 160mm in length with a maximum diameter of 25mm. The attached mesocolic fat is up to 35mm wide. The serosa shows multiple areas covered by mucinous tumour and areas of roughening consistent with adhesion. On opening the lumen, it shows normal mucosal folds, no discreet lesions are identified. Proximal margin is inked blue, distal margin black.

(26 proximal and distal margin of anterior resection; 27&amp;amp;28 serosa of anterior resection showing tumour deposits of serosa and attached mesocolic fat; 29 one possible lymph node from mesocolic fat).

Separate pieces of fibrofatty tissue consistent with peritoneum, all together measures 250x210x20mm. The section consistent with peritoneum is covered by a mucinous deposit of tumour.

(29 sections of ?peritoneum; 30 sections of ?diaphragm).

Also included in the pieces is an ellipse of skin consistent with umbilicus, measuring 30x15x15m, and up to 15mm in depth.

(32 section of umbilicus). RS (M-32/ MC/cy)
Further tissue:
Further blocks of tissue taken and embedded in blocks 33-38 (appendix); 39&amp;amp;40 ? left ovary; 41&amp;amp;42 CS ? right ovary.
RS (M-42/MC/ank)

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr H Knoch)
Histology shows a low grade mucinous neoplasm arising within the distal appendix which is partially obliterated with formation of a large mass of mucinous tumour adherent to uterus and which obilterates and surrounds both fallopian tubes. The ovaries could not be identified. The tumour is characterised by abundant extracellular organising mucin with fibro-inflammatory septae and a low to intermediate cellularity population of low grade atypical mucinous columnar epithelium.  Deposits of low grade mucinous tumour are also seen over the serosa of the gallbladder, capsule of the spleen, within the omentum, focally within the small bowel mesentery, and over the serosa of the colon.  No malignancy is seen in 4 mesenteric lymph nodes. Other separate fragments of peritoneum are also involved by tumour and within the segment of skin (umbilicus), there is involvement of some deep subcutaneous fatty tissue by mucinous tumour.  No evidence of high grade invasive carcinoma is identified.  No signet-ring cells are seen.  Otherwise within the uterus, the epithelium of the ectocervix and endocervix  are unremarkable.  The endometrium appears atrophic.

DIAGNOSIS:
GALLBLADDER, UTERUS, SPLEEN, OMENTUM, BILATERAL DIAPHRAGM STRIPPING, RIGHT COLON AND SMALL BOWEL -
- LOW GRADE APPENDICEAL MUCINOUS NEOPLASM WITH BULKY SEROSAL AND PERITONEAL DEPOSITS FORMING A LARGE TUMOUR MASS ADHERENT TO THE UTERUS.

18/1/2066 nh
