SPR no: 80T544082J
MRN no: 80754408
Site_name: CALVARY MATER NEWCASTLE
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report80T54408 (80T544082J) ANGELONE, TOMAS

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Appendix Ca.  Peritoneal mets.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;GALLBLADDER, PERITONEAL DISEASE, SPLEEN, SMALL BOWEL, RECTUM, UTERUS, OVARIES.

There is a gallbladder, 76x25x25mm.  There is a possible tumour deposit, 8x8x3mm, located 15mm from the cystic duct margin.  The margin is inked in blue.  The gallbladder mucosa is green and velvety.  The gallbladder wall thickness varies from 3-7mm.  Within the lumen, there is one black gallstone, 6mm in diameter and one black gallstone, 3mm in diameter.  There is a further possible tumour deposit located 10mm from the fundus, 2mm in size.

(1  shave cystic duct margin [embedded on the cut surface] and section adjacent showing cystic duct node and gallbladder neck; 2  remaining sections of cystic duct node and TS of gallbladder body showing possible tumour deposit; 3  two sections of gallbladder fundus showing possible tumour deposit).

Also within the specimen jar is a possible segment of small bowel, 50mm in length and 22mm in diameter.  The lumen is disrupted, presumed iatrogenic.  In addition, there are two possible tumour nodules, on the serosal surface, 12mm and 14mm in diameter.

(4  the largest tumour deposit and two adjacent sections of disrupted bowel; 5  two sections from the smaller possible tumour deposit).

Also within the specimen jar is an excision of tissue containing rectum, uterus and fallopian tubes.  The rectum is 175mm in length and 45mm in open diameter.  The wall thickness varies from 4-10mm.  The serosal surface contains innumerable deposits of myxoid mucinous deposits, suspicious for tumour deposit, 4-70mm in size.  Attached to the perirectal mesentery is the possible left fallopian tube which measures, 106mm in length and 5-12mm in diameter.  A separate possible fimbrial end of fallopian tube which may have been the right fallopian tube that is distorted is also adherent, 25x15x5mm.  The uterus is present and measures 55mm from superior to inferior, 38mm from right to left and 37mm from anterior to posterior.  The uterus weighs 47g.  The uterus is tethered to the rectum by the left fallopian tube in addition to a piece of mesentery, 130x140x10mm.  This mesentery contains deposits of pale firm/myxoid areas, 3-15mm in size, suspicious for tumour deposits.  At the presumed anterior aspect of the uterus, there is a pale myxoid tumour deposit, 26x12x15mm.  The uterus is inked so that the presumed anterior soft tissue margin is blue and posterior is black.  In addition on the serosal surface of the posterior aspect of the uterus, there are numerous pale possible tumour deposits, 3-10mm in size.  There are numerous fibroids within the myometrium, 2-7mm in size.  They have a whorled pale cut surface.  The endometrium is less than 1mm.  The myometrium is 15mm and the serosa is less than 1mm.  There is a possible disrupted left ovary, adherent to the left fallopian tube mid portion, 50x55x15mm.  It is disrupted and it contains multilocular cysts, 6-40mm in size.

(6  anterior body of uterus, showing endometrium and tumour deposits and fibroids; 7  posterior uterus, showing serosal deposit and endometrium; 8&amp;amp;9  longitudinally bisected presumed left fallopian tube fimbrial end; 10&amp;amp;11  LS of possible fimbrial end of right fallopian tube [possible tumour deposit]; 12&amp;amp;13  sections of possible left ovary; 14  section of possible tumour deposit in the peritoneum connecting the rectum and uterus; 15&amp;amp;16  section of tumour deposits on serosal surface of rectum).

Also within the specimen jar is a separate unoriented excision of spleen and attached fibroadipose tissue.  The overall dimensions for this piece of tissue are 310x80x45mm.  The spleen measures 80x60x50mm.  There are tumour deposits surrounding the majority of the splenic capsule, in addition to at the hilum.  The attached fibroadipose tissue contains numerous tumour deposits up to 120mm in size.  The approximate weight of spleen is 150mm (including overlying extent of tumour deposit).

(17  tumour deposit at hilum of spleen; 18  tumour deposits on capsule of spleen; 19  tissue adjacent to spleen showing deposit of tumour).

The remaining pieces of tissue are unoriented excisions of fibroadipose tissue, including muscle and mesentery.  One of the largest separate fragment measures 145x70x50mm and appears to contain substantial muscle.

(20  section of muscle and tumour; 21  section from separate, unoriented deposit of tumour, 30x25x25mm.  Please note that this block is the tumour block, for tumour banking).

The remaining tissues are innumerable, unoriented pieces of fibroadipose tissue, 18-150mm in size and 190x190x40mm in aggregate.  They contain innumerable deposits of myxoid tumour in addition to areas of mucin with tumour deposits up to 70mm in size.  The second segment of small bowel and right ovary cannot be definitely identified.  RS (M-21/LH/km).

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr V Pelini)
Sections of the gallbladder demonstrate serosal deposits of moderately to poorly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma including signet ring cells and with abundant extracellular mucin.
Sections of the segment of small bowel show serosal deposits of moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells with abundant extracellular mucin pools and with desmoplastic reactive stroma.
Sections of the uterus show proliferative endometrium and several benign leiomyomas.  On the uterine serosal surface there are deposits of moderately to poorly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells and desmoplastic stromal reaction and abundant extracellular mucin pools.  Similar tumour deposits are seen on the fallopian tubes and infiltrating within the ovary. Similar tumour is seen on the peritoneal reflection between uterus and rectum and on the serosal/adventitial surface of the rectum with infiltration into muscularis propria.
Similar tumour is seen on the serosal surface of the spleen and in the adjacent perisplenic adipose tissues. Similar tumour is seen in the representative sections of the separate piece of fibroadipose tissue and muscle and mesentery.
Comment : The sections show extensive serosal deposits of moderately to poorly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells.  Clinical correlation is required.
DIAGNOSIS:
PERITONECTOMY SPECIMEN -
-MODERATELY TO POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA WITH SIGNET RING CELLS - SEE TEXT.

18/3/2067 ank
