SPR no: 30K749314W
MRN no: 3037493
Site_name: ANGLISS HOSPITAL
Facility_id: 016
Specimen_type: Fresh Tissue
Pathology Report30K74931 (30K749314W) GRGUREVIC, BRODIE BRITT

HISTOPATHOLOGY REPORT:

HISTORY:
Low grade appendix tumour, recurrent peritoneal mets, redo peritonectomy.  Small bowel, peritoneal tumour, muscle, old ileocolic anastomosis.

MACROSCOPIC:
&amp;quot;SMALL BOWEL PLUS PERITONEAL DISEASE&amp;quot;.  Two separate pieces of small bowel with mesentery, one containing the ileocolic anastomosis. Multiple pieces of peritoneum and a piece of muscle.

The first piece of small bowel measures 950mm in length and up to 30mm in diameter with mesentery 900x40x30mm.  The serosa of the small bowel is rough and covered in multiple small nodules.  Largest is gelatinous in appearance measuring up to 15mm. Situated at the centre of the length of small bowel 450mm from the nearest resection margin, the serosa is disrupted over an area measuring 20mm x 10mm.  No obvious inflammation associated with this disruption.  On opening, the small bowel mucosa shows normal appearance with no lesions identified.  A side to side anastomosis between small bowel and small bowel is located 260mm from one of the margins.  The anastomosis appears intact and unremarkable in appearance.  The mesentery shows no lesion.

The second piece consists of an ileocolic anastomosis consisting of small bowel, 70mm in length, 30mm in diameter attached to large bowel, 50mm in length, 50mm in diameter with attached fat 70x25x30mm.  The serosa is rough and covered in adhesions.  No obvious rupture or tumour nodules at 60mm from the small bowel margin.  The small bowel mesentery shows two metastatic nodules.  First metastasis is completely gelatinous measuring up to 22mm.  The second metastasis is cystic, measuring up to 30mm.  The cystic lesion is adherent to the small bowel.

(1-10  is from the long piece of small bowel [1  margins, 2&amp;amp;3  tumour nodule tumour banking block is in 2, 4&amp;amp;5  small bowel with roughened serosa, 6  disrupted serosa on small bowel, 7  small bowel to small bowel anastomosis, 8-10  mesentery vascular pedicle shave]; 11-14  is from the ileocolic anastomosis [11  margins, 12  anastomosis, 13&amp;amp;14  metastatic nodules x2 adherent to small bowel)

Part 3 consists of a piece of muscle 40x25x20mm containing metastatic gelatinous tumour up to 20mm.  Part 4 consists of multiple pieces of nodular appearing peritoneum, 110x60x20mm in aggregate.  Cut surface shows gel-like substance within these nodules, largest measuring up to 50mm.

(15&amp;amp;16  muscle; 17-20  pieces of peritoneum).  RS (M-20/JC/km).

MICROSCOPIC:   (Dr. I. Wesselink)
The small bowel resection margins are unremarkable.  The serosa of the small bowel shows large pools of mucin which are lined by low grade mucinous epithelium with basal nuclei.  The epithelium has papilliform and flattened morphology.  There are also small nests of low grade mucinous epithelium floating within the mucin pools.  A granulomatous and inflammatory reaction with organising fibrosis is present within and adjacent to the mucin.  The mucin and epithelium dissect into the muscularis propria but do not involve the submucosa of the small bowel.  Fibrous adhesions are present on the small bowel serosa away from the mucinous areas.  Acute inflammation with fibrin is also present on the serosa consistent with acute peritonitis.  No perforation of the small bowel is identified.

The ileocolic anastomosis resection margins are unremarkable.  The small bowel mesentery is transected by mucin pools with surrounding fibrosis.  The pools are lined by mucinous epithelium which grows in a flattended and papilliform architecture.  There is reactive fibrosis and granulation tissue and chronic inflammation associated with the mucin.  Focally, the serosal surface is markedly disruptive with excessive granulation tissue, fibrin, acute inflammation and residual lining mucinous epithelium.  The epithelium fragments into nests which are confined to the inflammatory reaction and do not invade into the surrounding fibrous stroma.  This inflammatory process with associated low grade mucinous epithelium involves the muscularis propria, submucosa and focally involves the mucosa in what appears to be a small diverticulum (block 14).

The skeletal muscle fragment shows adjacent fibrous tissue which contains large mucin pools that are lined by low grade mucinous epithelium growing in a flat and papilliform architecture.  The peritoneal fragments are also lined by similar epithelium.

There is no high grade mucinous epithelium, no signet ring cells, and no invasive carcinoma.

DIAGNOSIS:
SMALL BOWEL PLUS PERITONEAL DISEASE:
- LOW GRADE MUCINOUS CARCINOMA PERITONEI / DISSEMINATED PERITONEAL ADENOMUCINOSIS (DPAM)
12/6/2067 km
